# URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hhjhU5MXZOo

Video
The Strangest Drug Ever Studied

Transcript
Kind: captions Language: en This is test subject 34. She's just been given a substance often described as the [music] most powerful psychedelic drug in the world. It makes her feel like she's being launched into outer space. Other users report near-death experiences, profound insights, and mythical encounters with spiritual beings. The drug appears to shape the very foundations of human perception. &gt;&gt; It is one of the most weird and unexpected things a person can go through. &gt;&gt; We're talking about dimethylryptamine or DMT. In its pure synthetic form, it looks like an inconspicuous crystalline powder. &gt;&gt; It's a very simple molecule. &gt;&gt; And yet, DMT has been puzzling scientists around the globe for more than a century. The substance has been used in indigenous cultures for thousands of years. It occurs naturally in plants, animals, and even in the human body. But when it interacts with our brain, things seem to go completely off the rails. Many users say DMT fundamentally changed their lives. And yet, other experiences suggest there's more to DMT than profound revelations, mystical encounters, and medical promise. For some people, the substance can also open doors to the darkest corners of their consciousness. This is the enduring mystery of DMT. [music] &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; November 1852. This is British botonist Richard Spruce. For the past 3 years, he's been making his way through the Amazon rainforest to study plants. He's particularly interested in mosses. Along the way, he keeps encountering indigenous communities living deep in the jungle. He learns their languages and studies their customs. Right now, Spruce is staying with an indigenous group in what is now northwestern Brazil. Today is a special occasion. The tribe is about to hold a spiritual ceremony, and at the center of it all is this ritual brew. Its key ingredient is a specific type of Lyanna. Indigenous people have been drinking or chewing it for thousands of years. Some groups call it napa, others bako or pinde. This group calls it capi. And tonight, Spruce is going to try it himself. He watches several young members of the community drink the mixture before him. He notes that for about 10 minutes, they appear to be possessed with reckless fury. Then they calm down and simply continue dancing. Then it's his turn. But the tribe didn't just prepare copy for him. I had scarcely dispatched one cup of the nauseous beverage when the ruler of the feast came up with a woman bearing a large calabash [music] of Mandioa beer called casherie. After that, protocol demands that he top things off with a cigar and a cup of palm wine. Spruce has to fight off the urge to vomit and stretches out in a hammock. The copy is slowly kicking in. He later notes in his journal that white men taking copy all seem to report the same experience. They feel alternations of cold and heat, fear and boldness. The sight is disturbed and visions pass rapidly before the eyes wherein everything gorgeous and magnificent they have heard or read of seems combined. And presently the scene changes to things uncouthed and horrible. Hey, this is Jonas, one of the founders of Fern. It's not just psychedelics that can shape our minds. Our thoughts and emotions are molded by relationships, opportunities, but also uncertainty and major life events. For many in our team, pressures often come as [music] deadlines piling up. It's not always dramatic, but over time it can become serious. That's why we encourage our team and viewers to seek support if needed. Some choose to talk to a friend, a colleague, or professionals like the paid partner of today's video. BetterHelp matches you with credentialed therapists based on your preferences, and you can switch therapists anytime. [music] We are aware of the criticism surrounding the platform and online therapy certainly isn't for everyone, but we also believe it can be genuinely helpful to [music] many. Recent surveys show that 86% would use their service again and since 2023, BetterHelp has improved its data privacy practices. [music] Under new leadership, they've been certified by HighTrust, a globally recognized standard for healthcare data security. If you feel better might be helpful, click the link in the description or go to betterhelp.com/fern to get 10% off your first month. Spruce calls the plant bonisteria copy. Bonisteria was the term used at the time for a class of tropical climbing plants. Copy is an indigenous word for grass. He samples a couple of those vines, dries them, and has them shipped to England. Over the following years, Spruce keeps traveling South America and repeatedly comes across Cappy. One of these encounters takes place in 1857 among an indigenous group in Peru. They also use the vine to prepare a powerful brew. They mix it with other plants and call it iawaska. Spruce apparently doesn't drink it himself this time. Instead, he asks the locals to describe their experiences to him. To Spruce, the brew remains an unsolved mystery. He simply can't figure out which particular substances cause these extreme effects. He's already familiar with opium and cannabis, but copy seems to be much more potent. What he doesn't realize is that he's been looking in the wrong place. The plant he sent back to Europe isn't the key ingredient. Technically, it's not the Lyanna or Banisteria copy that produces the intoxicating effect. The real trigger is a special compound found in the leaves mixed into the brew. DMT, more precisely, NDMT. Its molecular structure is surprisingly simple compared to other psychedelics. Its complete name is N and dimethylryptamine, but we'll simply refer to it as DMT throughout this video. German Canadian chemist Richard Mans was the first to synthesize the substance in the early 1930s. Back then, he had no idea of its extraordinary psychoactive effects. At its core, DMT is characterized by a nitrogen atom bonded to two methyl groups, [music] hence the name dimethyl. A methyl group consists of one carbon atom bonded to three hydrogen atoms. It's one of the simplest building blocks in organic chemistry. The nitrogen atom is connected via short carbon chain to the most important part of the molecular structure, the so-called indole ring. The same structural feature can also be found in other known psychedelics like LSD or psilocybin. And within the molecular structure of serotonin, serotonin is a neurotransmitter, a molecule that carries chemical messages or signals between nerve cells. It plays a key role in some of our most essential bodily functions from mood, sleep, digestion, and nausea to wound healing and sexual desire. Because of their structural similarity, psychedelics like DMT combined to the same receptors usually used by serotonin are like key locks and drugs are like specific keys that act on specific key locks. And so these classic psychedelic drugs which with which DMT is one of them act on specific kilocks in the brain and specifically these serotonin receptors in the brain. This is Chris Timberman. He's a neuroscientist and one of the world's leading researchers on DMT. He spends much of his time traveling for research, so we're lucky enough to catch him on a video call. It's likely that DMT was also the main active compound in the brew that Spruce encountered back in the jungle. Today that mixture is widely known as iawasa. To produce it you mainly need two ingredients. The first one consists of plants that contain DMT. They grow across large parts of the Amazon basin though not exclusively there. The second ingredient is the capi lyana documented by spruce. It doesn't contain DMT itself but it is crucial for making the DMT in the brew psychoactive. Mixing and boiling the two together produces the psychedelic plant drink known as iawasa. Psychedelics are generally considered physiologically safe and non-addictive. That's one of the key differences between them and drugs like cocaine or empetamines. Those primarily act as stimulants. They artificially increase dopamine and neuroepinephrine levels in the brain and strongly [music] activate our reward system. Psychedelics, on the other hand, alter perception itself. Users may see or hear things that aren't there, hallucinate and lose their sense of time and space. Some report life-changing experiences. In many ways, psychedelic substances seem to fundamentally alter how we think and feel, which is precisely why DMT continues to fascinate scientists to this day. In terms of the psychological impact of the experiences, in terms of the subjective effects it generates, it is one of the most weird and unexpected things a person can go through. April 19th, 1943, a bike path near Basil in Switzerland. This is Swiss chemist Albert Hoffman. He works as a researcher for a Swiss pharmaceutical company. Riding next to him is his lab assistant. He explicitly asked her to come along. He's desperately trying to get home. Earlier that day, he started conducting an experiment on himself. He dissolved 250 g of lysurgic acid diialthamide in [music] water and ingested it. He had synthesized the compound in the lab after isolating it from the urgot fungus. And right now he's feeling a bit under the weather. Everything in my field of vision wavered and was distorted as if seen in a curved mirror. I also had the sensation of being unable to move from the spot. Nevertheless, my assistant later told me that we had traveled very rapidly. &gt;&gt; Stretching out on the couch back home doesn't help much either. &gt;&gt; My surroundings had now transformed themselves in more terrifying ways. Everything in the room spun around and familiar objects and pieces of furniture assumed grotesque, threatening forms. They were in constant motion, animated as if driven by an inner restlessness. The lady next door, whom I scarcely recognized, brought me milk. She was no longer Mrs. R, but appeared instead as a malevalent insidious witch wearing a colored mask. Albert Hoffman has just embarked on the world's first LSD trip. He has no idea what the substance does. He believed 250 micrograms to be prudently safe dose, but it turns out to be extraordinarily potent, and now he fears he may lose his mind. A few hours later, the effects slowly begin to soften. The trip becomes more pleasant. As he steps out into his garden after a spring rain, it feels as though he's seeing everything for the very first time. &gt;&gt; Everything glistened and sparkled in a fresh light. &gt;&gt; From that day on, Hoffman is convinced that this tiny molecule holds enormous power, that it could someday be of great value to medicine and psychiatry. His discovery jumpstarts the entire field of psychedelic research. Hoffman inspires many other scientists to follow his lead. [music] And in the 1950s, he becomes the first to isolate the psychoactive compounds psilocybin from psychedelic mushrooms. That's another major milestone. But psychedelic research also turns its attention to DMT. Scientists discover more and more plants that contain the substance. To date, it has been found in at least 50 different plant species. DMT has also been found in mammals like rats and rabbits. In the 1960s, a German researcher team even found traces of the substance in human blood. Shortly after, US Nobel Prizewinning scientist Julius Axelrod provided evidence that DMT occurs naturally in the human brain. It's even considered endogenous, meaning our own bodies produce it naturally. &gt;&gt; There's a saying that says DMT is everywhere, and it is also found in the human body and in a lot of mammals bodies as well. Throughout the 1960s, scientists keep isolating DMT in humans, animals, and plants. And meanwhile, psychedelics are starting to seep into popular culture. &gt;&gt; How often have you taken LSD? &gt;&gt; About four times. The swinging 60s [music] are the peak years of the hippie movement and psychedelics like LSD. The cultural revolution is fueled by activists, intellectuals, and artists alike. One of them is Terrence McKenna. He is just studying at Berkeley. He's 18 years old and has already done his fair share of experiments with psychedelics like LSD. But what he is about to experience tonight will eclipse everything he has ever felt. A friend has come to visit and brought this white crystallin powder. He claims it was stolen from a US Army chemical research facility. It's DMT. And for the first time in his life, young Terrence McKenna is about to smoke it. I had this hallucination of tumbling [music] forward into these fractal geometric shapes made of light. And then I found myself in the equivalent of the Pope's private chapel. And there were insect elf machines profering strange little tablets with strange writing on them. These self-transforming machine elf creatures were speaking in a colored language which condensed into rotating machines that were like fabraier eggs. All this stuff was so weird and so alien and [music] so unglishable that it was a complete shock. I mean, the literal turning inside out of my intellectual universe. It's like being [music] struck by noetic lightning. The experience completely changes McKenna's view of life and reality. He becomes convinced that there is another secret world, one we normally can't see or access. He drops out of university to chase this mystery. He travels to Nepal to meet Tibetan shamans. He works as a professional butterfly collector in Indonesia, and he ventures deep into the Colombian jungle with his brother and three friends. McKenna's description of the so-called machine elves becomes a cultural reference. Countless DMT users later report encountering mystical entities that closely match what he described. He dies in 2000, leaving behind an extensive audio archive with over 500 hours of theories on psychedelics and spirituality. A drug like synthetic iawaska pharmasa. Do people realize this is the same thing as has been taken for thousands of years down there? Do they realize its role in shamanic healing? &gt;&gt; By the late 1960s, authorities began cracking down on the widespread drug use in the US. Oh, &gt;&gt; you [music] know, I mean, if I was to say where I got it from, you know, it's illegal and everything. It's silly to say that. In 1966, California and Nevada become the first states to outlaw the production, sale, and possession of LSD. Two years later, the drug is banned across the entire country. &gt;&gt; America's public enemy number one is drug abuse. &gt;&gt; America's war on drugs soon extends to much of the rest of the world. In 1971, the United Nations adopts the Convention on Psychotropic Substances. Many countries outlaw psychedelic substances and sharply restrict their use, including DMT. From that point on, only a handful of approved scientific institutions are allowed to continue their research on them, and even they have to adhere to extremely strict regulations. For decades, DMT research effectively grinds to a halt. The whole class of compounds got pulled off the the clinical bench, and no research has gone on for 40 years. &gt;&gt; One of the tragedies to me is that the clinical research on these substances [music] pretty much stopped around 1970. Dr. Rick Strathman is a psychiatrist. He set on bringing psychedelic research back to life. His study is the first attempt to observe the effects of psychedelic substances in humans in the US in over 20 years. [music] He wants to know what DMT does to our mind and body. The participants are numbered. [music] Sarah is subject 34. She's in her early 40s and lives with her second husband. She has three children and works as a freelance writer. She has told the researchers that an angel once visited her when she had a high fever as a child and that every now and then she communicates with spirit guides for advice and support. She also suffers from depression. In her 20s, she overdosed on tranquilizers and was hospitalized for 2 weeks following the suicide attempt. Today, she wants to find out whether DMT can help her gain a deeper [music] understanding of herself and her relationship to the universe. The experiment is set to begin in just a few seconds. The onset of DMT's effects largely depend on how you consume it. Most recreational users smoke DMT using a glass pipe. This makes the effects kick in extremely fast, usually in under 1 minute. [music] The peak experience tends to last only a couple of minutes before wearing off. The smoke tastes unpleasant and can trigger coughing fits. Another substance closely related to N and DMT is called 5 MO DMT. This YouTuber smoked it for one of his videos. Others try to consume it like this. 5 mod DMT occurs naturally in secretions of the Colorado River toad. A common misconception is that licking the toad will get you high. It won't, and it can be extremely toxic. Most research today focuses on synthetic 5met. It also kicks in very fast and strong, but tends to produce far fewer visual hallucinations than NDMT. DMT can also be snorted. In that case, the effects take a few minutes to kick in, [music] but the trip also lasts a bit longer. Iaska usually contains the highest dose of DMT. The effects begin after around 45 minutes and can last several hours. But the brew is tough on the stomach. Many people have to throw up during the trip. Two things are paramount for a pleasant DMT experience. Set and setting. The right mix of emotional stability and soothing surroundings. Experts recommend a calm environment where users feel safe [music] and are able to lie down comfortably. Mixing substances can be extremely dangerous. Some users avoid alcohol, masturbation, and watching the news before attending an Iawaska retreat. But not even the best preparation can guarantee DMT won't produce what many call a bad trip. Some users online describe experiences that leave them shaken for days with flashbacks to vivid hallucinations of falling or flying through tunnels and encounters with frightening beings. Psychedelics can also worsen existing mental health issues. People who suffer from psychotic disorders or are mentally unstable should not take them. In general, DMT should never be used without professional guidance. Sarah's experience will be guided by Dr. Stman. In clinical settings like this one, DMT is administered via IV injection. It hits almost instantly. Sarah has previously been given a low introductory dose to see how her body reacts to the substance. Recreational users are advised to start with similar test doses. Sarah's lowd dose experience has been pleasant and relaxing. Now she's about to receive five full doses. She will go on five consecutive trips. After each one, Straman will let her come down to check in with her. She's all set. Sarah can feel the cool touch of Stman's hand, and she's trying to count her heartbeats. &gt;&gt; I got to three beats. Then there was a sound like a hum that turned into a whoosh. And then I was blasted out of my body at such speed with such force as if it were the speed of light. The colors were aggressive, terrifying. I felt as if they would consume me, as if I were on a warp speed conveyor belt heading straight into the cosmic psychedelic buzzsaw. I was terrified. I felt abandoned. I'm completely and totally lost. I have never been so alone. I was scared, but I kept telling myself, "Relax, surrender, embrace." It was all flashing and whirling lights. I was rather disappointed here. I'm expecting this profound spiritual experience and I get Las Vegas. But then before I had much time to be disappointed, I flew on and saw clowns performing. They were like toys or animated clowns. I had the overwhelming urge to laugh. I was kind of self-conscious about it at first, but I couldn't contain myself and I laughed out loud watching those clouds. Suddenly, a pulsating entity appeared in the patterns. It sounds weird to describe it as Tinkerbellike. It was trying to coax me to go with it. At first, I was reluctant, but I did want to go with it. I could tell the drug was starting to wear off. And I wasn't high enough to follow it. I told it I can't go with you now. See, they want me back. It didn't seem to be offended and in fact followed me back until I sensed it had reached its boundary. I felt like it was saying goodbye. Sarah needs a short break. The start of her trip has been especially intense. That's something Timberman hears from many of his own participants. People can feel, especially at the beginning of the experience, that they're being as launched u from a rocket as if they're like going into outer space and they're in a rocket. And so there's a strong feeling of energy and vibrations in their body. They are interacting with beings, spirits, entities, gestures, clowns, a range of different ways [music] in which people see these uh beings that interact with the participants that they engage with them, invite them to do something, to communicate and so forth and so on. Encounters with such beings seem to be a common experience in many DMT trips. For one of his studies, Timberman analyzed nearly 4,000 DMT experiences posted on Reddit. Almost half mentioned similar entity encounters. In a 2021 field study with 36 participants, almost everyone reported an encounter with some sort of sentient being. But how do these encounters actually unfold? That's what Baltimore's John Hopkins University asked over 2,500 DMT users in an online survey. The first question was about the primary senses involved in the encounter. Most participants reported seeing them, and more than half described hearing them. About a third said they could touch them, while some could even smell or taste them. A whopping 85% described their encounter as extrensory or telepathic. The most common descriptive labels for the entities were beings, guides, spirits, aliens, and helpers. Less common labels were clowns, demons, gnomes, monsters, [music] or devils. As to the emotions involved, most participants reported feelings of love, trust, and joy. Only a minority experienced fear. 11% believe they had encountered religious figures. [music] Meaning some people think they saw God in these beings. &gt;&gt; This is what some of the research has found and some people have reported [music] that and it is interesting because uh in a way God is a is a personification of these uh spiritual or mystical like qualities according to certain religions and it seems that DMT stimulates those sort of experiences. &gt;&gt; DMT appears to have a significant impact on people's religious beliefs and their sense of spirituality. This study surveyed users who reported so-called God encounter experiences [music] during psychedelic trips. 25% described them as atheists before their trip, meaning they didn't believe in God. Afterwards, their number dropped to just 7%. Among Iaska users, atheist identification declined from 12 to 3%. Sarah 2 is deeply moved by these encounters. She's about to receive her final injection. &gt;&gt; I went directly into deep space. They knew I was coming [music] back. They told me there were many things they could share with us when we learn how to make more extended contact. Again, they wanted something from me, not just physical information. They were interested in emotions and feelings. I told them, "We have something we can give you, spirituality." I guess what I really meant was love. I tried to [music] figure out how to do this. I felt a tremendous energy, brilliant pink light [music] with white edges building on my left side. I knew it was spiritual energy and love. They were on my right. So, I reached out my hands across the universe and prepared to be a bridge. I let this energy pass through me to them. I said something like, "See there, I did it for you. You have it." They were grateful. I was coming down off the DMT, losing altitude. &gt;&gt; Sarah didn't expect to become what she called an earthly spiritual emissary during her trip. She doesn't feel comfortable with that rule, but has done her best to live up to it. Now, it's the next participant's turn. Number 35. Over the course of 5 years, Stman observes hundreds of these [music] trips. He administers about 400 doses of DMT to 60 volunteers. He eventually calls DMT the spirit molecule because of the spiritual and metaphysical experiences it appears to induce. Stman's work in the 1990s was groundbreaking research, but it also raised more questions than it could answer. Since then, many neuroscientists have picked up where he left off. So, what's actually happening inside our brain when we take DMT? Modern neuroscience suggests that our brain has a hierarchical modular organization. Modular means that certain nerve cells work together in different types of clusters or brain networks specialized in specific functions. There appears to only be a limited amount of communication between these networks. Hierarchical means that higher order areas like the prefrontal cortex collect signals from different areas across the brain to coordinate appropriate responses. But that entire organization seems to pretty much collapse when our brain is on DMT. The key players here are these special serotonin receptors. [music] They determine how sensitive neurons react to incoming signals. That in turn impacts how information is transmitted and processed within and across brain regions. When DMT binds to these receptors, the brain's usual top- down control mechanisms become less effective. It's like the neurochemical reins come off. One of the experts we talked to thinks DMT makes the brain become more democratic. Another calls it anarchy. Either way, the brain suddenly enters a state in which far more areas communicate with each other than usual. Scientists call this global hyperconivity. It's completely different from how the brain normally operates. But how does this explain these extremely vivid hallucinations? Why do some users feel as if they're entering an entirely different reality? One explanation is that the brain sort of disconnects from external information. In this paper, Chris Timberman proposes that DMT disrupts the brain's normal way of processing sensory input. The technical term is functional deafrantation. It's a state of disconnected consciousness. We're disconnected from the external environment individuals feel. &gt;&gt; Instead, the brain shifts into a completely new state, a kind of internal simulation. &gt;&gt; They report that they are in immersive world of experience. &gt;&gt; But where does this other world come from? One clue to unravel this mystery could be [music] dreaming. All those weird things that happen in our dreams seem similar to what people describe on DMT. &gt;&gt; They are disconnected from their initiated environments and their own brains and the organism as a whole is reconstructing an alternative world of experience. It's very similar to what happens during DMT experiences. &gt;&gt; Timberman and colleagues found that the strongest rhythms of theta waves in the brain correlate with the peak of a DMT trip. The same patterns are found during REM sleep. He writes that a DMT trip is like dreaming with your eyes open, except that DMT trips are usually far more intense and vivid than normal dreams. Neuroscientist Andrew Galammore has a theory about why that is. In our dreams, the brain sort of rebuilds our real life experiences, drawing established patterns of information. But on DMT, those familiar templates come undone. Everything becomes more open, chaotic, and unpredictable. It's like you're seeing the world a new like you've never seen it before. Your brain, you haven't decided what you're seeing. Um, and coupled with this increased sensitivity to sensory information, um, the world becomes transcendent. It becomes much more vivid. &gt;&gt; Which brings us to one of the wildest DMT experiences of all, encountering spiritual entities or sentient beings. There are different theories about these types of encounters. One study examined how these two brain regions behave under the influence of DMT. These areas are essential for recognizing social cues and processing the emotional dynamics of human interaction. &gt;&gt; So when we have our normal experiences and we interact with our partners or co-workers, our sons and daughters, these same systems also start engaging in the brain. &gt;&gt; In turn, these areas become active when we try to understand someone else's thoughts and feelings. or more specifically when we try to distinguish their mental state from our own. &gt;&gt; So right now we're uh working with a hypothesis based on what we found that in essence what DMT does it engages parts of what we call social cognition, the ways in which we build up our relationships in the world. &gt;&gt; In the hyperconnected DMT brain, [music] these two regions engage far more intensely with each other and with other areas. And so we believe that that enhances or pronounce or enable the appearances of these beings or entities. It's almost as if we simulate those social relations. Put simply, the brain massively ramps up its resources for processing social signals. And that could explain why so many DMT users encounter these entities or beings. Another key to understanding the substance could be just how similar DMT trips seem to feel to so-called near-death experiences. Such experiences can occur during traffic accidents, suicide attempts, and cardiac arrests. Many report a sense of brightness, seeing the light at the end of the tunnel, losing track of time and [music] space, or gaining insight into some ultimate truth. &gt;&gt; The features that are similar to the near-death experiences [music] in the DMT experiences are that [snorts] feeling that many people have that they're they have reached a sort of boundary or a limit of where they can go in this alternate reality or universe. Timberman thinks these near-death experiences could also be linked to global hyperconivity. &gt;&gt; That is such a big transformation of the mind, such a big transformation of the brain that it is likely that the brain is sending a signal that it's dying, that that it is being transformed beyond recognition. In other words, there's so much going on in the brain during a DMT trip that the brain blows all of its fuses. It basically thinks it's dying. And yet, there's one major difference between DMT trips and near-death experiences. &gt;&gt; DMT is more visual, and near near-death experiences are more disembodied. Then again, near-death experiences are also far from being fully understood. This makes it even harder to draw reliable scientific conclusions with regard to DMT. Back in the '90s, Rick Straman proposed a bold hypothesis [music] that the spirit molecule DMT might be released during crucial life events like birth, [music] death, or profound mystical experiences. Today, there is strong evidence suggesting that DMT is produced naturally mamalian brains. Scientists are still investigating why that is. Early findings suggest that DMT release in the brain correlates with a massive surge of stress hormones. One experiment with lab rats showed a significant increase in DMT levels following cardiac arrest. Another study suggests that releasing DMT in the brain could also have a protective function. The compound appears to activate a receptor that helps brain cells survive oxygen deprivation and oxidative stress. So DMT might as well be a kind of built-in emergency medication for life-threatening situations. And a very recent study suggests that DMT levels in our brain might be much higher than previously assumed and that it may be involved in a number of physiological processes. So here's what we know so far. DMT occurs naturally in plants, mammals, and humans. It's even considered indogenous, meaning our own bodies may produce it. We also know that when on DMT, our brain seems to be far more interconnected, that it activates so many different areas that it can feel like entering an entirely different world. one where we can communicate with all sorts of other worldly beings. And in some [music] cases, our brain gets so overwhelmed by this hyperconnected state that it thinks it's dying. But all of this is just the beginning. Early clues, hypotheses, and indications, [music] nothing more and nothing less. Most of the questions DMT poses to science are still wide open. For now, DMT remains a vast, unsolved mystery. We still don't fully understand how it creates such vivid hallucinations. We don't really know why our own body produces it, and we certainly don't understand how 50 mg of this tiny molecule can reshape entire lives in just 20 minutes. We're back in the Amazon rainforest about 170 years after Richard Spruce. Once again, a British researcher is attending an Iawaska ceremony. But things are different this time. Simon Ruffle is not a botonist. He's a psychiatrist. Unlike Spruce, he knows exactly what active compound he's dealing with. For the past decade, he's been studying Iawaska to explore its potential role in healing trauma like PTSD in war veterans. But so far, the number of participants has been too small for conclusive results. And some of them feel their mental health has worsened after the Iawaska experience. But others show first signs of improvement. In some participants, Ralph has observed significant reductions in depression and anxiety outcomes. Timberman has seen similar indicators in his own research. His theory depressed individuals tend to think that they are worthless individuals that they are unlovable. For example, they adopt beliefs that are no longer useful for them. What DMT [snorts] does, it acts on these brain mechanisms that are related to that sense of self and dynamically can change it in a lasting way. Some studies suggest that meditation and other mindfulness-based practices could offer positive effects that are similar to those of psychedelic experiences. But research on that is also just beginning. Chris Timberman will continue to explore DMT's medical use, but he's also looking to unravel an [music] even bigger mystery, human consciousness itself. &gt;&gt; I'm particularly interested in using DMT to help us understand how we construct our usual worlds of experience. [music] He's chasing the same secret that made Terrence McKenna set out about 60 years ago. &gt;&gt; The world that we see out there is not necessarily the same world that is truly out there. We as human beings, our brains construct that world. I'm interested in using DMT to help us understand that [music] construction.

# URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HBTYVVUBAGs

Video
One Mistake Took Down a 29-Yr-Old Dark Web Drug Lord

Transcript
Kind: captions Language: en [00:00] On Oct. 1, 2013, federal agents entered&nbsp; a public library in San Francisco. [00:06] They arrested 29-year-old Ross Ulbricht. [00:08] Ulbricht ran the largest, most sophisticated&nbsp; online market for illegal drugs in history. [00:14] He named it Silk Road, a reference to the ancient&nbsp;&nbsp; [00:17] trade routes that connected China to&nbsp; Europe beginning in the 2nd century BC. [00:22] Ulbricht hoped to create his&nbsp; own modern-day marketplace.&nbsp;&nbsp; [00:25] Except his would sell hardcore&nbsp; drugs and other illegal goods. [00:29] Over the two years and ten&nbsp; months that Silk Road operated,&nbsp;&nbsp; [00:32] federal prosecutors say it processed&nbsp; nearly $214 million in sales using Bitcoin. [00:38] The site operated on a hidden part of the internet called the dark web. [00:42] Prosecutors say a journal the FBI found on Ulbricht's computer [00:45] stated he wanted “to create a website where&nbsp; people could buy anything anonymously,&nbsp;&nbsp; [00:49] with no trail whatsoever that&nbsp; could lead back to them.” [00:52] Unfortunately for Ulbricht, he did&nbsp; leave a trail of digital breadcrumbs&nbsp;&nbsp; [00:56] that would ultimately take him&nbsp; down and his empire with it. [00:59] Ulbricht was born on March&nbsp; 27, 1984, in Austin, Texas. [01:04] He was a boy scout, attaining the highest rank&nbsp; of eagle scout just like his dad had done. [01:08] He had a happy childhood. [01:10] Growing up an easy-going hipster but&nbsp; serious student who scored 1460 on&nbsp;&nbsp; [01:15] his SATs - within the 96th percentile - and got a&nbsp;&nbsp; [01:18] full ride to the University of Texas&nbsp; at Dallas* (NOT Austin), where he studied physics. [01:22] He then won another full&nbsp; scholarship for a Master’s&nbsp;&nbsp; [01:25] at Penn State in materials&nbsp; science and engineering. [01:28] It was at Penn that he evolved&nbsp; into a hardcore libertarian…a&nbsp;&nbsp; [01:31] political philosophy that advocates individualism&nbsp; and minimal state involvement in people’s lives. [01:36] He was a fan and follower of&nbsp; libertarian economist Ludwig&nbsp;&nbsp; [01:40] von Mises who opposed government&nbsp; interference in the economy. [01:43] When then-presidential candidate Mitt Romney&nbsp; asked what is America’s greatest challenge,&nbsp;&nbsp; [01:48] Ulbricht responded like&nbsp; this on his YouTube channel. [01:51] I think the most important thing is&nbsp; getting us out of the United Nations. [01:55] Ulbricht wanted to create a world free&nbsp; from institutional or governmental control. [02:00] That mindset led him to create&nbsp; Silk Road in January 2011. [02:04] You couldn’t type in a regular web address to&nbsp; get to Silk Road or use a regular web browser. [02:09] You needed software called Tor&nbsp; that works as a web browser. [02:13] Tor was developed by the U.S. Navy as a way&nbsp; of communicating privately over the internet. [02:18] It conceals the real IP address&nbsp; of computers on the network to&nbsp;&nbsp; [02:21] hide the identity of the user and it&nbsp; can’t be traced by the government. [02:24] Silk Road’s address used a bunch of random&nbsp; numbers and letters that ended with dot onion. [02:29] Ulbricht made the site by&nbsp; teaching himself how to code. [02:32] When he needed more help he reached out&nbsp; on a Bitcoin community forum, writing: [02:36] “I'm looking for the best and brightest&nbsp; IT pro in the bitcoin community to be&nbsp;&nbsp; [02:40] the lead developer in a venture&nbsp; backed bitcoin startup company.” [02:44] Anyone interested was to contact him&nbsp; via his email: rossulbricht@gmail.com [02:50] Making his email public would&nbsp; later come back to haunt him. [02:54] He also got coding help from a buddy&nbsp; of his from undergrad, Richard Bates. [02:58] Ulbricht had no choice but to eventually&nbsp; tell his friend what he was up to.&nbsp;&nbsp; [03:01] He also told his girlfriend Julia Vie. [03:04] One day, he showed her the psychedelic mushrooms&nbsp;&nbsp; [03:06] he was growing and selling as a&nbsp; starter product on his new website. [03:09] Silk Road would eventually be a&nbsp; marketplace for all kinds of drugs:&nbsp;&nbsp; [03:13] Weed. Cocaine. LSD. Ecstasy. Heroin. [03:17] This fit Ulbricht’s libertarian mindset. [03:19] He believed that whatever someone decided to put&nbsp; in their body was their choice and no one else’s,&nbsp;&nbsp; [03:24] least of all, the government’s. Ulbricht also believed everyone&nbsp;&nbsp; [03:28] had the right to self-defense when guns&nbsp; started appearing on Silk Road. However,&nbsp;&nbsp; [03:32] he realized he didn’t need the controversy&nbsp; and soon took weapons off the site. [03:36] After getting his business up and running – he&nbsp; turned his attention to attracting customers. [03:40] He decided to write a post on a Magic&nbsp; Mushrooms forum called the Shroomery,&nbsp;&nbsp; [03:44] pretending to be someone who&nbsp; happened to come across Silk Road. [03:47] He used the username “altoid”, posting:&nbsp; “I'm thinking of buying off it,&nbsp;&nbsp; [03:49] but wanted to see if anyone here had&nbsp; heard of it and could recommend it.” [03:50] He included a link with instructions&nbsp; on how to access Silk Road. [03:50] I came across this website called Silk Road.&nbsp; It's a Tor hidden service that claims to&nbsp;&nbsp; [03:50] allow you to buy and sell anything online&nbsp; anonymously. I'm thinking of buying off it,&nbsp;&nbsp; [03:51] but wanted to see if anyone here had&nbsp; heard of it and could recommend it. [03:54] He did the same on a Bitcoin site in a&nbsp; forum about buying and selling heroin,&nbsp;&nbsp; [04:02] describing Silk Road as “an anonymous amazon.com” [04:06] It wasn’t long before buyers showed up. [04:08] To limit scams, there was a rating system&nbsp; for sellers, similar to Amazon reviews.&nbsp;&nbsp; [04:12] If a seller sold bad drugs and got a&nbsp; poor rating, it would hurt their sales. [04:16] The drugs arrived by mail&nbsp; with fake return addresses.&nbsp;&nbsp; [04:20] They’d be slipped inside CD and DVD cases. [04:23] Some sellers got even more creative and&nbsp; put them in little ripples of cardboard. [04:27] The packages had printed mailing&nbsp; labels rather than handwritten ones&nbsp;&nbsp; [04:30] to look like they came from a legitimate business. [04:33] Ironically, that backfired. The printed labels&nbsp; actually attracted the suspicion of authorities. [04:39] In the summer of 2011, Department of Homeland&nbsp; Security agent Jared Der-Yeghiayan learned of a&nbsp;&nbsp; [04:44] small, neat package with a printed address going&nbsp; through Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport. [04:49] It contained a single pink pill of&nbsp; ecstasy which was also suspicious&nbsp;&nbsp; [04:53] because usually, they shipped in bulk. [04:55] Soon, two or three packages began arriving,&nbsp;&nbsp; [04:58] then 50, then up to 1000 a day! Many came from the&nbsp; Netherlands which is a notorious source of drugs. [05:04] Agent Der-Yeghiayan visited an address where&nbsp; one of the packages was to be delivered,&nbsp;&nbsp; [05:08] chatted with the roommate of the buyer, who said&nbsp; the drugs came from a site called Silk Road. [05:13] Der Yeghiayan had never heard of Silk Road before. [05:16] He did some digging online and&nbsp; came across an article written&nbsp;&nbsp; [05:18] by Gawker journalist Adrian Chen in June 2011. [05:22] Chen wrote: “Making small talk&nbsp; with your pot dealer sucks.&nbsp;&nbsp; [05:25] Buying cocaine can get you shot. What&nbsp; if you could buy and sell drugs online&nbsp;&nbsp; [05:29] like books or light bulbs? Now&nbsp; you can: Welcome to Silk Road.” [05:34] The article attracted 3 million&nbsp; views and put Silk Road on the map. [05:38] Not only did Silk Road soon attract the&nbsp; attention of thousands of drug dealers and buyers&nbsp;&nbsp; [05:43] but also politicians like senator Chuck Schumer&nbsp; who called for the site to be shut down. [05:48] The U.S. government was concerned&nbsp; but not only about drug sales. [05:52] As Nick Bilton detailed in&nbsp; his book American Kingpin,&nbsp;&nbsp; [05:55] Homeland Security agent Der-Yeghiayan feared that&nbsp; a terrorist organization could enter the country&nbsp;&nbsp; [06:00] and then buy something from&nbsp; Silk Road to harm Americans. [06:03] He convinced the U.S. Attorney's&nbsp; Office in Chicago to take on the case. [06:06] As Silk Road came into the spotlight,&nbsp; Ulbricht’s college friend Richard who&nbsp;&nbsp; [06:10] helped him with programming said&nbsp; he urged him to shut it down. [06:13] Ulbricht and his girlfriend Julia broke&nbsp; up soon after the launch of Silk Road.&nbsp;&nbsp; [06:17] She said one of the reasons was because of the&nbsp; insane pressure she felt to keep his secret. [06:22] Ulbricht lied to her and Richard, telling them&nbsp;&nbsp; [06:25] he had sold the business to someone else&nbsp; and no longer had anything to do with it. [06:29] He moved to Australia for a while&nbsp; and lived with his sister in Sydney.&nbsp; [06:32] Around this time, he was contacted through the&nbsp;&nbsp; [06:34] site by a person going by&nbsp; the name “Variety Jones”. [06:38] Variety Jones became his right-hand man and&nbsp; someone Ulbricht described as a “real mentor”. [06:43] Neither knew the others’ true identity. [06:45] Variety Jones pointed out the gaping&nbsp; holes in security on Silk Road. [06:49] Ulbricht decided to encrypt&nbsp; all the files on his computer. [06:52] This is the actual laptop&nbsp; he used to run Silk Road. [06:56] He put in a “kill switch” that would&nbsp; automatically shut down his device&nbsp;&nbsp; [06:59] by pressing a predetermined key in case&nbsp; authorities rushed in at the last minute. [07:03] He also prepared an escape&nbsp; plan if needed, including:&nbsp;&nbsp; [07:06] destroy laptop, hard drive, find a place to&nbsp; live on Craigslist for cash with a new identity. [07:12] Variety Jones came up with Ulbricht’s infamous&nbsp; pseudonym on Silk Road: Dread Pirate Roberts [07:18] A reference to the fearsome captains&nbsp; from the film The Princess Bride&nbsp;&nbsp; [07:21] who passed the name on to a chosen successor. [07:24] In the same way, Ulbricht hoped to one day pass&nbsp;&nbsp; [07:26] on the name Dread Pirate Roberts&nbsp; to someone who might succeed him. [07:30] Variety Jones got him to see how&nbsp; big Silk Road could grow to be. [07:35] Ulbricht wrote in a personal journal disclosed&nbsp; by prosecutors: “Silk Road is going to become&nbsp;&nbsp; [07:40] a phenomenon and at least one person will tell&nbsp; me about it, unknowing that I was its creator.” [07:46] In two short years, Silk Road grew to more than&nbsp; 100,000 users with sales of nearly $214 million [07:57] The Feds were left scratching their heads as they&nbsp;&nbsp; [07:59] still had no clue who was the&nbsp; mastermind behind Silk Road. [08:03] Who was this Dread Pirates Roberts?&nbsp; Who was the captain of the ship? [08:07] It became somewhat of a competition amongst the&nbsp;&nbsp; [08:09] various government agencies to be the&nbsp; one to identify Dread Pirate Roberts. [08:14] To better understand how Silk Road&nbsp; operated, Department of Homeland&nbsp;&nbsp; [08:17] Security agent Der-Yeghiayan posed as a&nbsp; buyer and made 52 undercover purchases. [08:22] He also seized thousands of packages,&nbsp;&nbsp; [08:24] linked certain sales back to their&nbsp; source, and arrested several people. [08:28] His biggest get came when he tracked&nbsp; down a Dread Pirate Roberts’ employee,&nbsp;&nbsp; [08:32] a moderator on Silk Road’s&nbsp; user forums called “cirrus”. [08:36] He forced her to hand over her account&nbsp; and then, he pretended to be her. [08:40] Der-Yeghiayan posing as cirrus got assignments&nbsp; directly from Dread Pirate Roberts. [08:44] He was not the only federal agent&nbsp; chatting with the boss of Silk Road. [08:48] DEA agent Carl Force was part of a task force&nbsp; in Baltimore that was also investigating. [08:54] Force used the username “Nob” and posed as a drug&nbsp; dealer originally from the Dominican Republic&nbsp;&nbsp; [08:59] who smuggled millions of dollars worth of&nbsp; cocaine and heroin into the U.S. every year. [09:04] He was on friendly terms with Dread Pirate&nbsp; Roberts, who had no idea he was speaking with&nbsp;&nbsp; [09:08] a DEA agent. An agent who, in a twist&nbsp; in the tale, turned out to be corrupt. [09:14] Force convinced Dread Pirate Roberts to&nbsp; pay him $50,000 in Bitcoin by claiming&nbsp;&nbsp; [09:19] he had “insider” information&nbsp; from a government employee. [09:22] When Force reported the conversation to&nbsp; the DEA, he claimed he never received&nbsp;&nbsp; [09:26] any payment when in fact, he funneled&nbsp; the Bitcoin into a personal account. [09:30] And believe it or not, a SECOND&nbsp; agent who worked on the same&nbsp;&nbsp; [09:33] Baltimore task force was also stealing,&nbsp; Security Service agent Shaun Bridges. [09:38] When Silk Road customer support rep Curtis&nbsp; Clark Green was arrested at his home with a kilo&nbsp;&nbsp; [09:43] of coke, Bridges used Green’s admin access to&nbsp; steal 20,000 Bitcoin from other user accounts.&nbsp;&nbsp; [09:49] That was worth $350,000 dollars and swelled&nbsp; to $820,000 by the time Bridges liquidated it. [09:49] Dread Pirate Roberts thought Green&nbsp; to be responsible for the theft.&nbsp;&nbsp; [09:52] He wanted to rough him up and got&nbsp; egged on by his mentor Variety Jones. [09:56] Dread Pirate Roberts knew Green’s real&nbsp; identity because as a condition for being&nbsp;&nbsp; [10:00] on Silk Road’s payroll, staff had&nbsp; to hand over their government ID. [10:03] So Dread Pirate Roberts turned to Nob (aka DEA&nbsp; agent Carl Force) to beat up Green. Nob agreed. [10:10] However, Dread Pirate Roberts then&nbsp; changed his mind and messaged:&nbsp;&nbsp; [10:14] "Can you change the order to&nbsp; execute rather than torture?" [10:18] Dread Pirate Roberts said he had “never&nbsp; killed a man or had one killed before,&nbsp;&nbsp; [10:22] but it is the right move in this case.” [10:24] He didn’t want to risk Green giving&nbsp; up information to the authorities as&nbsp;&nbsp; [10:28] he knew Green had been arrested&nbsp; when he searched him up online. [10:31] Nob agreed to do the job for $80,000 in Bitcoin. [10:34] Ulbricht later received photos of a dead Green. [10:37] Except he wasn’t really dead. [10:39] Agent Force staged Green’s death&nbsp; complete with photos of him on the&nbsp;&nbsp; [10:43] floor covered in Campbell’s Chicken &amp; Stars soup. [10:46] The Dread Pirate Roberts is said to have ordered&nbsp; hits on five others whom he felt threatened by. [10:51] Silk Road had been prey for&nbsp; blackmailers and extortionists. [10:54] However, there was no proof&nbsp; that anyone was ever killed.&nbsp;&nbsp; [10:58] Ulbricht was never charged with murder for hire. [11:01] The government agencies were still nowhere closer&nbsp; to figuring out who was Dread Pirate Roberts. [11:06] The DEA enlisted the help of the&nbsp; FBI’s Cyber Crime unit in New York&nbsp;&nbsp; [11:10] as it had more technological know-how&nbsp; and experience with the dark web. [11:14] FBI special agent Chris Tarbell knew that&nbsp; in order to catch Dread Pirate Roberts,&nbsp;&nbsp; [11:19] they had to wait for them to make a mistake. [11:21] And according to the FBI, the&nbsp; Dread Pirate Roberts did finally&nbsp;&nbsp; [11:24] slip up about a year after the&nbsp; agency started investigating. [11:28] In May 2013, investigators noticed&nbsp; coding errors - vulnerabilities on&nbsp;&nbsp; [11:33] the Silk Road website that leaked IP addresses. [11:36] As a result, they discovered the Silk Road&nbsp; servers were housed in a data center in Iceland. [11:40] By the way, Ulbricht’s defense&nbsp; team doesn’t buy this explanation.&nbsp;&nbsp; [11:44] They believe the NSA spied illegally and&nbsp; tipped off the FBI to the servers’ location. [11:49] Agent Tarbell flew to Reykjavik&nbsp; where Icelandic authorities gave&nbsp;&nbsp; [11:52] him a drive with information from the servers. [11:55] The FBI had access to a treasure trove of&nbsp; data: They could see the number of transactions&nbsp;&nbsp; [11:59] processed. Who logged in and out. And crucially, Tarbell and his&nbsp;&nbsp; [12:03] team had identified that the master&nbsp; computer Silk Road servers talked to,&nbsp;&nbsp; [12:06] the one Dread Pirate Roberts used to&nbsp; log in to Silk Road, was named “Frosty”. [12:11] And Dread Pirate Roberts was logging in with&nbsp; an encryption key that ended with frosty@frosty [12:16] They could also tell Dread Pirate&nbsp; Roberts recently used internet from&nbsp;&nbsp; [12:19] a San Francisco cafe to log in&nbsp; to a Silk Road server via a VPN. [12:24] By the spring of 2012, Ulbright had&nbsp; returned home from Australia and&nbsp;&nbsp; [12:28] eventually moved to San Francisco&nbsp; to live with a childhood friend. [12:31] So now the FBI had the name of the computer&nbsp; and could focus their search on San Francisco. [12:36] But still, no idea of Dread&nbsp; Pirate Roberts’ real identity. [12:40] That piece of the puzzle would be filled in&nbsp;&nbsp; [12:42] by Gary Alford who worked for the&nbsp; IRS…the Internal Revenue Service. [12:46] As a tax investigator, he was assigned&nbsp; to follow the money but instead,&nbsp;&nbsp; [12:50] discovered the identity of Dread Pirate Roberts. [12:53] Alford figured that whoever&nbsp; started Silk Road would have&nbsp;&nbsp; [12:56] had to drum up interest in it long&nbsp; before that Gawker article came out. [13:00] So he decided to do Google searches&nbsp; for Silk Road prior to June 2011. [13:04] That’s when he stumbled on Ulbricht’s online posts&nbsp;&nbsp; [13:06] where he pretended to be someone who&nbsp; happened to come across Silk Road. [13:10] Alford noted the username for the posts: “altoid”. [13:13] He also noticed another post&nbsp; where “altoid” asked for IT&nbsp;&nbsp; [13:16] help on the Bitcoin forum which included&nbsp; his personal email: rossulbricht@gmail.com [13:22] Someone with the username Altoid also posted on&nbsp; Stack Overflow with a question related to Tor. [13:28] Soon after, that user changed&nbsp; the alias from Altoid to Frosty. [13:33] Alford didn’t know the significance&nbsp; of the name Frosty at the time. [13:37] But what he did have was&nbsp; a real name to track down. [13:40] He googled Ross Ulbricht and came across the&nbsp; LinkedIn profile of a young man with rather&nbsp;&nbsp; [13:45] cryptic life goals, quote: “The most&nbsp; widespread and systemic use of force&nbsp;&nbsp; [13:49] is amongst institutions and governments,&nbsp; so this is my current point of effort.” [13:54] Alford asked himself: Could Ross&nbsp; Ulbricht be the brains behind Silk Road? [13:59] Then came another piece of the puzzle. [14:01] In July 2013, U.S. Customs and Border&nbsp; Protection officers intercepted nine&nbsp;&nbsp; [14:06] fake IDs coming into the U.S. from Canada. [14:09] Homeland security agents decided to&nbsp; pay a visit to the intended recipient. [14:13] They showed up at 2260 15th&nbsp; Avenue in San Francisco,&nbsp;&nbsp; [14:16] the address where Ulbricht had been staying. [14:18] He had moved out of the place he&nbsp; shared with his friend and into&nbsp;&nbsp; [14:21] a sublet he found on Craigslist&nbsp; where he paid his rent in cash. [14:25] He took every precaution,&nbsp; including adopting a fake identity. [14:28] His roommates knew him as Joshua Terrey&nbsp; though he kept much of his backstory the same. [14:33] He said he was from Texas. Worked in IT&nbsp; which is why he was always on his computer. [14:37] And had recently returned&nbsp; home from Australia which&nbsp;&nbsp; [14:40] made not having a cell phone less suspicious. [14:43] “Joshua” kept to himself and&nbsp; ate steak dinners for one. [14:46] When the agents questioned Ulbricht, they&nbsp; observed that he became “visibly nervous”. &nbsp; [14:51] He didn’t admit to purchasing the fake IDs&nbsp; - let alone that he bought them so he could&nbsp;&nbsp; [14:55] rent additional servers to deal with Silk&nbsp; Road’s growth as well as security issues. [14:59] Prosecutors later claimed he&nbsp; prepared for a life on the run&nbsp;&nbsp; [15:02] including seeking citizenship&nbsp; on the island of Dominica. [15:05] Ulbricht volunteered to the agents who&nbsp; showed up at his door that “hypothetically”&nbsp;&nbsp; [15:09] anyone could purchase anything they&nbsp; wanted on a site called Silk Road. [15:13] The agents had never heard of Silk Road and were&nbsp; apparently unaware of any federal investigations. [15:18] But they did document the incident. [15:21] So when IRS agent Gary Alford ran another search&nbsp; on Ulbricht, he found that Homeland Security&nbsp;&nbsp; [15:26] file on the fake IDs - which cemented&nbsp; his belief that they had the right guy. [15:30] The pieces of the puzzle finally came&nbsp; together when Alford got on the phone&nbsp;&nbsp; [15:34] with the other agencies to see what they all had.&nbsp;&nbsp; [15:36] Alford mentioned the username&nbsp; “Frosty” that he had found on a forum. [15:40] That floored FBI agent Tarbell&nbsp; - who knew Frosty to be the&nbsp;&nbsp; [15:43] name of the computer Dread Pirate Roberts used. [15:46] Bingo. They knew Ross Ulbricht&nbsp; was Dread Pirate Roberts. [15:51] In their pursuit of evidence, federal&nbsp; agents followed him everywhere. [15:54] They also had a subpoena for Gmail and noticed&nbsp; that whenever Dread Pirate Roberts logged into&nbsp;&nbsp; [15:58] Silk Road, Ulbricht was also signed into&nbsp; his Google account. And whenever Dread&nbsp;&nbsp; [16:03] Pirate Roberts logged out, Ulbricht&nbsp; also logged out of his Google account. [16:07] But they knew this wouldn’t be enough to nail him. [16:09] They needed concrete evidence. [16:11] They had to catch Ulbright&nbsp; while his laptop was open&nbsp;&nbsp; [16:14] and he was logged in on Silk&nbsp; Road as Dread Pirate Roberts. [16:18] An unlocked computer was also necessary&nbsp; so agents could access his files. [16:22] This would be difficult to pull off. [16:24] Authorities knew their best bet was to catch&nbsp; him off guard and arrest him in a public place. [16:29] Homeland Security agent Jared Der-Yeghiayan was&nbsp; still pretending to be Silk Road staff member&nbsp;&nbsp; [16:33] cirrus and continued to maintain&nbsp; contact with Dread Pirate Roberts. [16:37] This communication was crucial&nbsp; to the plan they hatched. [16:40] On October 1st, 2013 at 3:08 pm local time,&nbsp; Der-Yeghiayan saw Dread Pirate Roberts log on. [16:48] Ulbricht was sitting in the&nbsp; science fiction section of the&nbsp;&nbsp; [16:51] San Francisco public library’s Glen Park branch. [16:54] Der-Yeghiayan started up a conversation with&nbsp; Dread Pirate Roberts while posing as Cirrus. [16:59] hi are you there&nbsp; [17:01] hey how are you doing?&nbsp; [17:04] i'm ok, you? good. can you check&nbsp;&nbsp; [17:08] out on one of the flagged messages for me? The flagged messages were in the main&nbsp;&nbsp; [17:12] administrative section that only&nbsp; Dread Pirate Roberts could access. [17:16] Dread Pirate Roberts responded: sure&nbsp; [17:19] let me log in ok&nbsp; [17:22] you did bitcoin exchange before&nbsp; you started working for me, right?&nbsp; [17:25] Ulbricht asked this for security reasons because&nbsp; only the real cirrus would know the answer. [17:32] Luckily for authorities, the real Cirrus had&nbsp; told them how to answer the security question. [17:36] Agent Der-Yeghiayan hoped he&nbsp; recalled correctly when he typed: [17:40] yes, but just for a little bit [17:42] It was a nerve-racking moment.&nbsp; [17:45] not any more than that no. I stopped because of reporting requirements&nbsp; [17:51] damn regulators eh? ok, which post?&nbsp; [17:55] Der-Yeghiayan knew Ulbricht was&nbsp; now looking at an admin screen.&nbsp;&nbsp; [17:58] He gave the signal to the other agents&nbsp; positioned in the library to make a move. [18:02] A commotion soon broke out near Ulbricht. [18:05] A woman yelled, “F–k you” as the man&nbsp; appeared like he was about to punch her. [18:09] When Ulbricht turned around to see the fight, an&nbsp; agent swooped in and grabbed his opened laptop. [18:14] At that point, agent Der-Yeghiayan said&nbsp; Ulbricht “lunges towards the laptop.&nbsp;&nbsp; [18:18] And another agent walks&nbsp; behind him - bear hugs him…” [18:21] Ulbricht was arrested and taken away. [18:23] The man and woman who were arguing were in fact&nbsp; undercover agents who created a distraction. [18:29] Ulbricht’s family and friends were&nbsp; shocked. How could the kind, fun,&nbsp;&nbsp; [18:34] loving man they knew be the same person who ran&nbsp; a global drug bazaar? They couldn’t believe it. [18:39] Ulbricht was indicted on seven charges: including&nbsp; distributing narcotics by means of the internet&nbsp;&nbsp; [18:45] and engaging in a continuing criminal enterprise. [18:48] He pleaded not guilty to all charges. [18:51] The trial began on January 13,&nbsp; 2015 and lasted three weeks. [18:56] Many of Ulbricht’s supporters showed up…believing&nbsp;&nbsp; [18:58] a guilty verdict would be&nbsp; a miscarriage of justice. [19:01] In court, Ulbricht’s defense&nbsp; attorney argued he wasn’t Dread&nbsp;&nbsp; [19:04] Pirate Roberts - that he had given away&nbsp; the handle and Silk Road to someone else. [19:08] But the jury didn’t buy it. [19:10] On February 5, 2015, a federal jury found&nbsp; Ross Ulbricht guilty on all seven counts. [19:17] Before sentencing, Ulbricht wrote a letter to&nbsp; the judge, begging for a more lenient sentence: [19:22] “I've had my youth, and I know you must take away&nbsp; my middle years, but please leave me my old age.&nbsp;&nbsp; [19:28] Please leave a small light at the end of the&nbsp; tunnel, an excuse to stay healthy, an excuse to&nbsp;&nbsp; [19:34] dream of better days ahead, and a chance to redeem&nbsp; myself in the free world before I meet my maker.” [19:42] On May 29, 2015, U.S. District Judge&nbsp; Katherine B. Forrest delivered her sentence: [19:48] "You were captain of the ship, as the Dread&nbsp; Pirate Roberts, and you made your own laws and&nbsp;&nbsp; [19:53] you enforced those laws in the manner that you saw&nbsp; fit. So, it wasn't a world without restriction. It&nbsp;&nbsp; [19:58] wasn't a world of ultimate freedom. It was a world&nbsp; of laws that you created, they were your laws.&nbsp;&nbsp; [20:05] It is fictional to think of Silk&nbsp; Road as some place of freedom." [20:08] "No drug dealer from the Bronx selling meth&nbsp; or heroin or crack has ever made these kinds&nbsp;&nbsp; [20:13] of arguments to the Court. It is a privileged&nbsp; argument, it is an argument from one of privilege.&nbsp;&nbsp; [20:19] You are no better a person than any&nbsp; other drug dealer and your education&nbsp;&nbsp; [20:23] does not give you a special place of&nbsp; privilege in our criminal justice system.&nbsp;&nbsp; [20:27] It makes it less explicable&nbsp; why you did what you did." [20:30] "There is no reason to make a choice between these&nbsp; two people that I see that are on display - the&nbsp;&nbsp; [20:35] Ulbricht who is the leader of the criminal&nbsp; enterprise and the Ulbricht who is known and&nbsp;&nbsp; [20:39] loved. What is clear is that people are very,&nbsp; very complex and you are one of them. They are&nbsp;&nbsp; [20:45] made up of many different qualities and many&nbsp; characteristics with no one quality defining&nbsp;&nbsp; [20:50] them. And there is good in Mr. Ulbricht,&nbsp; I have no doubt, but there is also bad,&nbsp;&nbsp; [20:55] and what you did in connection with Silk Road&nbsp; was terribly destructive to our social fabric. [21:01] Mr. Ulbricht, it is my judgment delivered&nbsp; here, now, on behalf of our country,&nbsp;&nbsp; [21:06] that on Counts Two and Four you are sentenced to&nbsp; a period of life imprisonment to run concurrently;&nbsp;&nbsp; [21:12] on Count Five you are sentenced to five&nbsp; years’ imprisonment to run concurrently;&nbsp;&nbsp; [21:17] on Count Six, you are sentenced to 15&nbsp; years’ imprisonment also concurrent;&nbsp;&nbsp; [21:21] and for money laundering in Count Seven, you&nbsp; are sentenced to 20 years, also concurrent.&nbsp;&nbsp; [21:26] In the federal system there is no parole&nbsp; and you shall serve your life in prison. [21:34] This was far beyond what the&nbsp; prosecution had even asked for.&nbsp; [21:38] Ulbricht had hoped Silk Road would become&nbsp; such a success that he would be famous. [21:43] According to a journal entry read&nbsp; by the prosecutor to the jury,&nbsp;&nbsp; [21:46] Ulbricht wrote: “I imagine that someday&nbsp; I may have a story written about my life&nbsp;&nbsp; [21:50] and it would be good to have&nbsp; a detailed account of it.” [21:53] His dream came true…but perhaps&nbsp; not in the way he had imagined. [21:58] The FBI later identified&nbsp; Ulbricht’s mentor, Variety Jones,&nbsp;&nbsp; [22:02] as Roger Thomas Clark, a Canadian arrested&nbsp; in Thailand in 2015. In 2020, Clark pled&nbsp;&nbsp; [22:08] guilty in a Manhattan court to conspiring to&nbsp; distribute massive quantities of narcotics. [22:13] As for the two corrupt officers&nbsp; investigating Silk Road. [22:16] Former DEA agent Carl Force was sentenced&nbsp; to 6 ½ years in prison for extortion,&nbsp;&nbsp; [22:21] money laundering, and obstruction of justice. [22:24] Former Secret Service agent Shaun Bridges&nbsp; was sentenced to nearly 6 years in prison&nbsp;&nbsp; [22:28] on charges of money laundering and obstruction&nbsp; of justice. He was later sentenced to an&nbsp;&nbsp; [22:33] additional two years for ANOTHER theft&nbsp; of Bitcoin from the U.S. government. [22:39] Thanks for watching. For Newsthink, I’m Cindy Pom.