# URL: https://www.platformer.news/substack-nazi-push-notification/

Article
Substack promotes a Nazi The company has long wanted to be seen as neutral infrastructure — this week, we saw why that’s a fantasy Casey Newton Jul 31, 2025 — 9 min read (Substack) This week, Substack apologized after sending a push alert promoting one of the pro-Nazi blogs on its network. Today, let’s talk about what it reveals about the gap between the company’s rhetoric around free expression and the reality of its approach. Taylor Lorenz had the story in User Mag : Substack sent a push alert encouraging users to subscribe to a Nazi newsletter that claimed Jewish people are a sickness and that we must eradicate minorities to build a “White homeland.” NatSocToday describes itself as “a weekly newsletter featuring opinions and news important to the National Socialist and White Nationalist Community.” The push alert was sent to an undisclosed number of users’ phones on Monday. Some people posted about the app alert on social media, confused why they were being prompted to subscribe to a Nazi blog. Moreover, anyone who clicked on the newsletter's profile saw recommendations for other white nationalist publications on the network. Substack said the alert was an accident. “We discovered an error that caused some people to receive push notifications they should never have received,” the company told Lorenz. “In some cases, these notifications were extremely offensive or disturbing. This was a serious error, and we apologize for the distress it caused. We have taken the relevant system offline, diagnosed the issue, and are making changes to ensure it doesn’t happen again.” This story piqued my interest in part because Platformer left Substack last year over the company’s decision not to remove or even demonetize pro-Nazi publications. (And when I say Nazi, I’m talking about literal 1930s German Nazis.) At the time, some critics accused us of overreacting. Some said we hadn’t found enough Nazi publications to justify leaving . Others said it was a stunt to boost paid subscriptions . Glenn Greenwald said it was part of a pro-censorship crusade on the part of liberal media. “The great cause of this species of liberal journalists is not confronting power centers or exposing deceit and crimes,” he wrote, “but whining and agitating that social media platforms must censor more.” In truth, we had more than one reason to leave. But foremost among them was the certainty that Substack’s Nazi problem would only get worse with time. Once it announced that right-wing extremists were free to set up shop on its network and start selling subscriptions, their arrival was a certainty. And because the platform invests heavily in social media-style growth hacks, it was inevitable that Substack would actively promote Nazi blogs across various surfaces. People would download the Substack app to read Platformer ; they would enable push notifications to be informed of new editions; and then sometime after that there would be a push featuring a publication with a swastika logo. Well, here we are. The inevitable happened. Given how likely all this was, I don’t have much to add about the push notification itself. I did, however, find the company’s statement about it curious. This post is for paying subscribers only Subscribe now Already have an account? Sign in

Title
Substack promotes a Nazi

Subtitle
The company has long wanted to be seen as neutral infrastructure — this week, we saw why that’s a fantasy

Preheader
The company has long wanted to be seen as neutral infrastructure — this week, we saw why that’s a fantasy

CTAs
- Subscribe (#/portal/signup) - Subscribe now (#/portal/signup) - Sign up (#/portal/)

# URL: https://organicsynthesis.beehiiv.com/p/organic-synthesis-beehiiv

Article
Organic Synthesis @ Beehiiv Radical Sorting, Diterpenoid Synthesis, Cycloadditions and More! S. Bennett & G. Laidlaw March 25, 2024 • Estimated Reading Time: 8 minutes Welcome to the inaugural issue of Organic Synthesis @ Beehiiv! 👋 The purpose of this newsletter is to highlight key papers in organic synthesis that have been published within the previous week. A short selection of publications from high-impact chemistry journals will be highlighted in an easy to read format, allowing subscribers to stay up-to-date with the latest literature. Please see the FAQ section for further details on the features, format and when to expect each issue in your inbox. 📬 This first week will highlight literature from Monday 18 th March – Sunday 24 th March 2024. Let’s begin. 👇 Science Alcohol-Alcohol Cross-Coupling Enabled by S H 2 Radical Sorting R. Chen, N. E. Intermaggio, J. Xie, J. A. Rossi-Ashton, C. A. Gould, R. T. Martin, J. Alcázar & D. W. C. MacMillan* Science , 2024 , 383 , 1350–1357 (DOI: 10.1126/science.adl5890) Alcohols represent a functional group class with unparalleled abundance and structural diversity. In an era of chemical synthesis that prioritises reducing time to target and maximising exploration of chemical space, harnessing these building blocks for carbon-carbon bond-forming reactions is a key goal in organic chemistry. In particular, leveraging a single activation mode to form a new C(sp 3 )–C(sp 3 ) bond from two alcohol subunits would enable access to an extraordinary level of structural diversity. In this work, the authors report a nickel radical sorting–mediated cross-alcohol coupling wherein two alcohol fragments are deoxygenated and coupled in one reaction vessel, open to air. Open Paper Nature Chemistry Enantioselective Propargylic Amination and Related Tandem Sequences to α-Tertiary Ethynylamines and Azacycles Z. Zhang, Y. Sun, Y. Gong, D.-L. Tang, H. Luo, Z.-P. Zhao, F. Zhou,* X. Wang* & J. Zhou* Nat. Chem. 2024 (DOI: 10.1038/s41557-024-01479-z) Chiral α-tertiary amines and related azacycles are sought-after compounds for drug development. Despite progress in the catalytic asymmetric construction of aza-quaternary stereocentres, enantioselective synthesis of multifunctional α-tertiary amines remains underdeveloped. Enantioenriched α-disubstituted α-ethynylamines are attractive synthons for constructing chiral α-tertiary amines and azacycles, but methods for their catalytic enantioselective synthesis need to be expanded. Here, the authors describe an enantioselective asymmetric Cu(I)-catalysed propargylic amination (ACPA) of simple ketone-derived propargylic carbonates to give both α-dialkylated and α-alkyl–α-aryl α-tertiary ethynylamines. The syntheses of quaternary 2,5-dihydropyrroles, dihydroquinines, dihydrobenzoquinolines and dihydroquinolino[1,2-α]quinolines are reported, and the synthetic value is further demonstrated by the enantioselective catalytic total synthesis of a selective multi-target β-secretase inhibitor. Enantioselective Cu-catalysed propargylic substitutions with O- and C-centred nucleophiles are also realised, further demonstrating the potential of the PYBOX ligand. Open Paper Journal of the American Chemical Society Enantioselective Divergent Syntheses of Diterpenoid Pyrones Y. Ji, Y. Liu, W. Guan, C. Guo, H. Jia, B. Hong & H. Li* J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2024 , ASAP (DOI: 10.1021/jacs.4c01788) Capitalizing a synergy between late-stage C(sp 3 )–H alkynylation and a series of transition metal-catalyzed alkyne functionalization reactions, the authors report the enantioselective divergent synthesis of 10 diterpenoid pyrones within 14–16 steps starting from chiral pool enoxolone, including the first enantioselective synthesis of higginsianins A, B, D, E, and metarhizin C. The synthesis also highlights an unprecedented biomimetic oxidative rearrangement of α-pyrone into 3(2H)-furanone, as well as applications of Echavarren C(sp 3 )–H alkynylation reaction and Toste chiral counterion-mediated Au-catalyzed intramolecular allene hydroalkoxylation in natural product synthesis. Open Paper Enantioselective [2π + 2σ] Cycloadditions of Bicyclo[1.1.0]butanes with Vinylazaarenes through Asymmetric Photoredox Catalysis Q. Fu, S. Cao, J. Wang, X. Lv, H. Wang, X. Zhao & Z. Jiang* J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2024 , ASAP (DOI: 10.1021/jacs.3c14077) The authors present a highly enantioselective [2π + 2σ] photocycloaddition of bicyclo[1.1.0]butanes (BCBs). The reaction uses a variety of vinylazaarenes as partners and is catalyzed by a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH)-containing chiral phosphoric acid as a bifunctional chiral photosensitizer. A wide array of pharmaceutically important bicyclo[2.1.1]hexane (BCH) derivatives have been synthesized with high yields, enantioselectivity, and diastereoselectivity. In addition to the diverse 1-ketocarbonyl-3-substituted BCBs, α/β-substituted vinylazaarenes are compatible with such an unprecedented photoredox catalytic pathway, resulting in the successful assembly of an all-carbon quaternary stereocenter or two adjacent tertiary stereocenters on the product. Open Paper Red Light–Blue Light Chromoselective C(sp 2 )–X Bond Activation by Organic Helicenium-Based Photocatalysis M. M. Hossain, A. C. Shaikh, R. Kaur & T. L. Gianetti* J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2024 , ASAP (DOI: 10.1021/jacs.3c13380) Chromoselective bond activation has been achieved in organic helicenium ( n -Pr-DMQA + )-based photoredox catalysis. Consequently, control over chromoselective C(sp 2 )–X bond activation in multi-halogenated aromatics has been demonstrated. n -Pr-DMQA + can only initiate the halogen atom transfer (XAT) pathway under red light irradiation to activate low-energy-accessible C(sp2)–I bonds. In contrast, blue light irradiation initiates consecutive photoinduced electron transfer (conPET) to activate more challenging C(sp 2 )–Br bonds. Comparative reaction outcomes have been demonstrated in the α-arylation of cyclic ketones with red and blue lights. Furthermore, red-light-mediated selective C(sp 2 )–I bonds have been activated in iodobromoarenes to keep the bromo functional handle untouched. Open Paper Enantioselective Construction of Quaternary Stereocenters via Cooperative Photoredox/Fe/Chiral Primary Amine Triple Catalysis L.-J. Li, J.-C. Zhang, W.-P. Li, D. Zhang, K. Duanmu, H. Yu, Q. Ping & Z.-P. Yang* J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2024 , ASAP (DOI: 10.1021/jacs.4c01842) The catalytic and enantioselective construction of quaternary (all-carbon substituents) stereocenters poses a formidable challenge in organic synthesis due to the hindrance caused by steric factors. One conceptually viable and potentially versatile approach is the coupling of a C–C bond through an outer-sphere mechanism, accompanied by the realization of enantiocontrol through cooperative catalysis; however, examples of such processes are yet to be identified. Herein, the authors present such a method for creating different compounds with quaternary stereocenters by photoredox/Fe/chiral primary amine triple catalysis. This approach facilitates the connection of an unactivated alkyl source with a tertiary alkyl moiety, which is also rare. The scalable process exhibits mild conditions, does not necessitate the use of a base, and possesses a good functional-group tolerance. Open Paper Nickel-Catalyzed Hydrofluorination in Unactivated Alkenes: Regio- and Enantioselective C–F Bond Formation C. Lee, M. Kim, S. Han, D. Kim & S. Hong* J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2024 , ASAP (DOI: 10.1021/jacs.4c01548) Catalytic formation of a regio- and enantioselective C–F bond chiral center from readily available alkenes is a crucial goal, yet it continues to pose significant challenges in organic synthesis. Here, the authors report the regioselective formation of C–F bonds facilitated by NiH catalysis and a coordination directing strategy that enables precise hydrofluorination of both terminal and internal alkenes. Notably, they have optimized this methodology to achieve high enantioselectivity in creating aliphatic C–F stereogenic centers especially with β,γ-alkenyl substrates, using a tailored chiral Bn-BOx ligand. Another pivotal finding is the identification of the (+)-nonlinear effect under optimized conditions, allowing for high enantioselectivity even with moderately enantiomerically enriched chiral ligands. Given the significant role of fluorine in pharmaceuticals and synthetic materials, this research offers essential insights into the regioselective and enantioselective formation of C–F bond chiral centers, paving the way for the efficient production of valuable fluorinated compounds. Open Paper Copper-Catalyzed Enantioconvergent Radical N -Alkylation of Diverse (Hetero)aromatic Amines X.-Y. Du, J.-H. Fang, J.-J. Chen, B. Shen, W.-L. Liu, J.-Y. Zhang, X.-M. Ye, N.-Y. Yang, Q.-S. Gu, Z.-L. Li*, P. Yu* & X.-Y. Liu* J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2024 , ASAP (DOI: 10.1021/jacs.4c02141) The transition metal-catalyzed enantioconvergent radical cross-coupling provides a powerful tool for chiral molecule synthesis. In the classic mechanism, the bond formation relies on the interaction between nucleophile-sequestered metal complexes and radicals, limiting the nucleophile scope to sterically uncongested ones. The coupling of sterically congested nucleophiles poses a significant challenge due to difficulties in transmetalation, restricting the reaction generality. The authors describe a probable outer-sphere nucleophilic attack mechanism that circumvents the challenging transmetalation associated with sterically congested nucleophiles. This strategy enables a general copper-catalyzed enantioconvergent radical N -alkylation of aromatic amines with secondary/tertiary alkyl halides and exhibits catalyst-controlled stereoselectivity. It accommodates diverse aromatic amines, especially bulky secondary and primary ones to deliver value-added chiral amines (>110 examples). Open Paper Angewandte Chemie International Edition Photocatalytic Functionalization of Dehydroalanine-Derived Peptides in Batch and Flow N. Kaplaneris, M. Akdeniz, M. Fillols, F. Arrighi, F. Raymenants, G. Sanil, D. T. Gryko & T. Noel* Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2024 , Accepted (DOI: 10.1002/anie.202403271) 🔓 Previously: ChemRxiv (DOI: 10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-6fgqv) - open paper Unnatural amino acids, and their synthesis via the late-stage functionalization (LSF) of peptides, play a crucial role in areas such as drug design and discovery. In this study, the authors present a photocatalytic hydroarylation process targeting the electrophilic residue dehydroalanine (Dha). This residue possesses an α,β-unsaturated moiety and can be combined with various arylthianthrenium salts, both in batch and flow reactors. The photocatalytic approach, being inherently mild, permits the diversification of peptides even when they contain sensitive functional groups. The readily available arylthianthrenium salts facilitate the seamless integration of Dha-infused peptides with a wide range of arenes, drug blueprints, and natural products, culminating in the creation of unconventional phenylalanine derivatives. The synergistic effect of the high functional group tolerance and the modular characteristic of the aryl electrophile enables efficient peptide conjugation and ligation in both batch and flow conditions. Open Paper Total Synthesis of Pallamolides A–E Y. Zhang, L. Chen & Y. Jia* Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2024 , Accepted (DOI: 10.1002/anie.202319127) The authors have achieved the first total synthesis of pallamolides A – E, of which pallamolides B – E possess intriguing tetracyclic skeletons with novel intramolecular transesterifications. Key transformations include highly diastereoselective sequential Michael additions to construct the bicyclo[2.2.2]octane core with simultaneous generation of two quaternary carbon centers, a one-pot SmI 2 -mediated intramolecular ketyl-enoate cyclization/ketone reduction to generate the key oxabicyclo[3.3.1]nonane moiety, and an acid-mediated deprotection/oxa-Michael addition/β-hydroxy elimination cascade sequence to assemble pallamolides tetracyclic skeletons. Kinetic resolution of ketone 14 via Corey-Bakshi-Shibata reduction enabled the asymmetric synthesis of pallamolides A – E. Open Paper Stereodivergent, Kinetically Controlled Isomerization of Terminal Alkenes via Nickel Catalysis C. Z. Rubel, A. K. Ravn, H. C. Ho, S. Yang, Z.-Q. Li, K. M. Engle* & J. C. Vantourout* Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2024 , Accepted (DOI: 10.1002/anie.202320081) Previously: ChemRxiv (DOI: 10.26434/chemrxiv-2022-x8ssk-v2) - open paper Because internal alkenes are more challenging synthetic targets than terminal alkenes, metal-catalyzed olefin mono-transposition (positional isomerization) approaches have emerged to afford valuable E - or Z -internal alkenes from their complementary terminal alkene feedstocks. However, the applicability of these methods has been hampered by lack of generality, commercial availability of precatalysts, and scalability. Here, the authors report a nickel-catalyzed platform for the stereodivergent E / Z -selective synthesis of internal alkenes at room temperature. Commercial reagents enable this one-carbon transposition of terminal alkenes to valuable E - or Z -internal alkenes via a Ni–H-mediated insertion/elimination mechanism. Open Paper Total Synthesis of the Euphorbia Diterpenoid Pepluacetal M. Liu, C. Wu, X. Xie, H. Li & X. She* Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2024 , Accepted (DOI: 10.1002/anie.202400943) The first total synthesis of the Euphorbia diterpenoid pepluacetal is disclosed in both racemic and chiral fashions. The synthesis strategically relies on a photo-induced Wolff rearrangement/lactonization cascade (WRLC) reaction to access the cyclobutane moiety, a ring-closing metathesis/cyclopropanation sequence to rapidly forge the 7–3 bicyclic system, and a late-stage Rh-catalyzed transannular carbenoid insertion to C(sp 3 )–H bond followed by a Baeyer-Villiger oxidation and ring-opening manipulations to install the side chain. The synthetic route demonstrates excellent stereochemical control on the non-classical concave-face bond formation and high scalability to provide 20 mg of (+)-pepluacetal. Open Paper Organic Letters Functionalization of Alkenes with Difluoromethyl Nitrile Oxide to Access the Difluoromethylated Derivatives B. A. Chalyk, O. Zginnyk, A. V. Khutorianskyi & P. K. Mykhailiuk* Org. Lett. 2024 , ASAP (DOI: 10.1021/acs.orglett.4c00431) 🔓 Electron-rich, electron-deficient, and non-activated alkenes can be rapidly functionalized by in situ -generated difluoromethyl nitrile oxide. The (3+2) cycloaddition proceeds at room temperature, has broad functional group tolerance, and can be used for the late-stage modification of bioactive molecules (finasteride and carbamazepine). The obtained CF 2 H-isoxazolines can be easily transformed into CF 2 H-containing building blocks for medicinal chemistry: amines, amino acids, amino alcohols, and spirocyclic scaffolds. Open Paper Utilization of High-Throughput Experimentation (HTE) and ChemBeads Toward the Development of an Aryl Bromide and Benzyl Bromide Photoredox Cross-Electrophile Coupling M. P. Glogowski, N. Cercizi, T. Lynch-Colameta, L. H. Ridgers, J. P. Phelan, A. M. Rowley & M. P. Rauch* Org. Lett. 2024 , ASAP (DOI: 10.1021/acs.orglett.4c00577) The discussion herein describes a metallaphotoredox reaction that allows for efficient exploration of benzyl structure–activity relationships in medicinal chemistry. The use of HTE (high-throughput experimentation) and ChemBeads allows for rapid reaction optimization. The formation of di(hetero)arylmethanes via cross-electrophile coupling between aryl bromides and benzyl bromides provides access to diverse chemical space. The breadth of the substrate scope will be discussed, along with the utilization of batch photochemistry for the preparation of this di(hetero)arylmethane motif on a larger scale. Open Paper Journal of Organic Chemistry Construction of Seven-Membered Oxacycles Using a Rh(I)-Catalyzed Cascade C–C Formation/Cleavage of Cyclobutenol Derivatives J. S. Ham, M. Son, C. G. Na, B. Park, M.-H. Baik* & R. Sarpong* J. Org. Chem. 2024 , ASAP (DOI: 10.1021/acs.joc.3c02914) The authors describe the synthesis of substituted oxepane derivatives through the skeletal remodeling of 4-hydroxy-2-cyclobutenones, which are readily prepared from commercially available dialkyl squarates upon their reaction with acrylonitrile. Mechanistically, a Rh(I)-catalyzed C–C bond formation and cleavage cascade is proposed. Specifically, a fused [3.2.0] bicycle is proposed to form from dialkyl squarate-derived cyclobutenols via an unusual Rh(I)-catalyzed intermolecular oxa-Michael addition of a tertiary alcohol with acrylonitrile, followed by an intramolecular conjugate addition/migratory insertion. Subsequent C(sp 3 )–C(sp 3 ) bond cleavage through a Rh-catalyzed β-carbon elimination is then theorized to furnish the oxepane scaffold. Open Paper That’s all for this issue! Have a great week and we’ll see you next Monday.

Title
Organic Synthesis @ Beehiiv

Preheader
Radical Sorting, Diterpenoid Synthesis, Cycloadditions and More!

CTAs
- Subscribe (/subscribe)

# URL: https://product.beehiiv.com/p/introducing-email-boosts

Article
Home Posts Introducing Email Boosts 📈 Introducing Email Boosts 📈 10x your revenue and growth with Email Boosts Tyler Denk Aug 16, 2023 In just the past few months since we’ve launched Boosts … We have paid out hundreds of thousands of dollars to newsletters Newsletters have collectively grown by nearly half a million subscribers via the Boost network Yet Boosts were only ever shown to new subscribers immediately after signup. But today we’re launching Email Boosts —so you can seamlessly add Boosts directly into your newsletter and promote them to your entire list at once. This will radically increase the reach and earning potential of those using Boosts. Show me an example… You’re boosting Newsletter A which pays $2.50 per subscriber You drop a Boost of Newsletter A into your newsletter 1,000 readers click on the Boost to signup with 1-click You would earn $2,500 in a single send Inversely Newsletter A just grew by 1,000 subscribers overnight Wash. Rinse. Repeat. This is all while your Web Boosts continue to drive revenue with each signup. The result: more revenue for newsletters looking to monetize, and more subscribers for newsletters looking to grow 🤝 . Let’s dig into the details… Quick Refresher on Boosts The Boost network is a two-sided marketplace of newsletters looking to both monetize and grow, tapping into thousands of the most popular newsletters in the world, all hosted on beehiiv. For those looking to grow their newsletter —you can create an offer specifying how much you’re willing to pay per new subscriber. Thousands of newsletters in the beehiiv network can apply to Boost your newsletter, driving you tons of new subscribers. Our verification process ensures that you’ll only ever pay for real and engaged subscribers, making Boosts one of the highest performing acquisition channels for newsletters. Boosts Dashboard (Grow) For those looking to monetize their newsletter —you can browse hundreds of offers in the Boosts Marketplace , discover newsletters that align with your audience, then apply to boost those that entice you the most. You’ll get paid for passively driving subscribers to other newsletters. Boosts Dashboard (Monetize) And you can do both at the same time. Earn passive revenue by boosting other newsletters, then funnel that cash straight into your own Boosts budget to scale your audience easier and more cost efficiently than ever before.. It’s built entirely on trusted first party data There’s no code needed at all No custom integrations or APIs required It’s fully-integrated within a single platform And it only takes a few minutes to get started Rowan Cheung from The Rundown AI has grown by over 10,000 subscribers via Boosts, paying only $2.00 per subscriber. And how quality are they? Using beehiiv’s advanced segmentation feature we can tell you… Engagement of subscribers from Boosts for The Rundown AI Start Growing with Boosts Start Monetizing with Boosts ❝ Note: Boosts are only available to users on Scale or Enterprise plans. You can learn more and/or upgrade here . How to Grow with Email Boosts Email Boosts allow you to leverage the powerful beehiiv network and grow by thousands of subscribers per send. Visit Grow → Boosts in the main menu to get started. Whether you are creating a new offer, or updating an existing one…you’ll be given an option to enable sending, then be prompted to enter in a max spend. The max spend caps how much you’re willing to pay a publisher per send to promote your newsletter. As always, you’ll only ever be charged for verified and engaged subscribers... and will be refunded for subscribers who don’t meet this criteria. Enabling your offer for Email Boosts Once published, your offer will appear in the Boosts Marketplace accessible to all beehiiv users to view and apply. Boost Marketplace You’ll receive notifications when others apply to Boost your newsletter. Once approved, they’ll begin promoting your newsletter on their website after new readers signup to their newsletter ( Web Boosts ). Separately they’ll be able to request including it in an upcoming newsletter ( Email Boosts ). You’ll receive notifications and be able to approve these requests from your Boosts Application dashboard, as shown in the image below. Pending Email Boost Requests Note: an amount equal to your max spend will be held in escrow for 72 hours after approving an Email Boost. This ensures liquidity in the marketplace, and the unused funds will be returned to your wallet after 72 hours. Lastly you’ll be able to track the real-time performance of your Boosts (both Web and Email ) from the dashboard. Boosts performance in dashboard The Result… Newsletters with massive audiences can seamlessly promote your newsletter with a few clicks You can grow by thousands of subscribers overnight You’ll only ever pay for verified and engaged subscribers based on dozens of first party datapoints and behavior Create a Email Boost ❝ Note: Boosts are only available to users on Scale or Enterprise plans. You can learn more and/or upgrade here . How to Monetize with Email Boosts Email Boosts allow you to earn thousands of dollars per send , promoting some of the top newsletters in the world. It all starts in the Boosts Marketplace where you can browse hundreds of available offers. Boosts that have sending enabled will show both a max spend value and have a paper airplane icon displayed on the offer. Boost Offer that is eligible for Email Boosts Apply to Boost the newsletter normally Once accepted, in your dashboard you can request to include this Boost in an upcoming newsletter Once the request is accepted—you’ll have 72 hours to include it in an upcoming post. We built this functionality directly into the text editor so you can add the Boost to your post with a few clicks 😀 . Adding a Boost to your post Boosts are embedded via our Magic Link technology (1-click auto-subscribe) so it optimizes the effectiveness and conversion of the promotion. Schedule and send your newsletter as usual, and watch the revenue flow in. 💰️ 📈 💰️ 📈 💰️ 📈 💰️ 📈 💰️ 📈 💰️ 📈 💰️ 📈 Note: you’ll need to send a new request for each individual post you want to include a Boost in. This protects the other newsletters from over-allocating funds. The result… Some newsletters are offering up to $4.50 per subscriber in the Boosts Marketplace You can now seamlessly add Boosts to your newsletter post to promote the offer to your entire list at once You can earn thousands of dollars per send with just a few clicks Start Monetizing with Boosts ❝ Note: Boosts are only available to users on Scale or Enterprise plans. You can learn more and/or upgrade here . Resources We built Boosts with quality and efficacy as the two top priorities. Admittedly there are a quite a few layers associated with the Boosts Network to ensure it’s optimized for you to grow and monetize at scale… There are different statuses, applications, and requests. There is money moving in and out of escrow. There are verification periods to ensure quality subscribers. There are dashboards and tables to track performance. To make this a whole lot easier to understand, we created this detailed guide to walk you through everything Boosts-related. The Experts Guide to Boosts blog.beehiiv.com/p/experts-guide-boosts Mastering Boosts allows you to tap into one of the most powerful flywheels in the newsletter space—allowing you to leverage thousands of newsletters to grow faster all while paying for it with “house money.” What did you think about these product updates? 🐝🐝🐝🐝🐝 Buzzzin about it 🐝🐝🐝 Meh, do more next time 🐝 What are your engineers doing? Login or Subscribe to participate Reply Login or Subscribe to participate Keep Reading

Title
Introducing Email Boosts 📈

Preheader
10x your revenue and growth with Email Boosts

CTAs
- Paid Subscriptions Turn your readers into paying subscribers. (https://product.beehiiv.com/t/Paid%20Subscriptions) - Login For existing subscribers. (https://product.beehiiv.com/login) - Subscribe Stay-up-to-date with future beehiiv product updates. (https://product.beehiiv.com/subscribe) - Virtual Events Sign up upcoming webinars and learn from industry experts. (https://www.beehiiv.com/virtual-events) - Sign up for beehiiv arrow-circle-right (https://app.beehiiv.com/signup?plan=max)