# URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8jPQjjsBbIc

Video
How to stay calm when you know you'll be stressed | Daniel Levitin | TED

Transcript
Kind: captions Language: en [00:13] A few years ago, I broke into my own house. [00:16] I had just driven home, [00:18] it was around midnight in the dead of Montreal winter, [00:20] I had been visiting my friend, Jeff, across town, [00:23] and the thermometer on the front porch read minus 40 degrees -- [00:27] and don't bother asking if that's Celsius or Fahrenheit, [00:30] minus 40 is where the two scales meet -- [00:33] it was very cold. [00:34] And as I stood on the front porch fumbling in my pockets, [00:37] I found I didn't have my keys. [00:40] In fact, I could see them through the window, [00:42] lying on the dining room table where I had left them. [00:45] So I quickly ran around and tried all the other doors and windows, [00:48] and they were locked tight. [00:50] I thought about calling a locksmith -- at least I had my cellphone, [00:53] but at midnight, it could take a while for a locksmith to show up, [00:56] and it was cold. [01:00] I couldn't go back to my friend Jeff's house for the night [01:03] because I had an early flight to Europe the next morning, [01:05] and I needed to get my passport and my suitcase. [01:08] So, desperate and freezing cold, [01:10] I found a large rock and I broke through the basement window, [01:14] cleared out the shards of glass, [01:16] I crawled through, [01:17] I found a piece of cardboard and taped it up over the opening, [01:21] figuring that in the morning, on the way to the airport, [01:24] I could call my contractor and ask him to fix it. [01:26] This was going to be expensive, [01:28] but probably no more expensive than a middle-of-the-night locksmith, [01:31] so I figured, under the circumstances, I was coming out even. [01:36] Now, I'm a neuroscientist by training [01:39] and I know a little bit about how the brain performs under stress. [01:43] It releases cortisol that raises your heart rate, [01:46] it modulates adrenaline levels [01:49] and it clouds your thinking. [01:51] So the next morning, [01:53] when I woke up on too little sleep, [01:55] worrying about the hole in the window, [01:58] and a mental note that I had to call my contractor, [02:01] and the freezing temperatures, [02:02] and the meetings I had upcoming in Europe, [02:05] and, you know, with all the cortisol in my brain, [02:08] my thinking was cloudy, [02:10] but I didn't know it was cloudy because my thinking was cloudy. [02:13] (Laughter) [02:15] And it wasn't until I got to the airport check-in counter, [02:18] that I realized I didn't have my passport. [02:20] (Laughter) [02:22] So I raced home in the snow and ice, 40 minutes, [02:26] got my passport, raced back to the airport, [02:28] I made it just in time, [02:30] but they had given away my seat to someone else, [02:32] so I got stuck in the back of the plane, next to the bathrooms, [02:35] in a seat that wouldn't recline, on an eight-hour flight. [02:39] Well, I had a lot of time to think during those eight hours and no sleep. [02:43] (Laughter) [02:44] And I started wondering, are there things that I can do, [02:47] systems that I can put into place, [02:49] that will prevent bad things from happening? [02:51] Or at least if bad things happen, [02:53] will minimize the likelihood of it being a total catastrophe. [02:59] So I started thinking about that, [03:00] but my thoughts didn't crystallize until about a month later. [03:03] I was having dinner with my colleague, Danny Kahneman, the Nobel Prize winner, [03:07] and I somewhat embarrassedly told him about having broken my window, [03:10] and, you know, forgotten my passport, [03:13] and Danny shared with me [03:14] that he'd been practicing something called prospective hindsight. [03:19] (Laughter) [03:20] It's something that he had gotten from the psychologist Gary Klein, [03:24] who had written about it a few years before, [03:26] also called the pre-mortem. [03:28] Now, you all know what the postmortem is. [03:30] Whenever there's a disaster, [03:31] a team of experts come in and they try to figure out what went wrong, right? [03:36] Well, in the pre-mortem, Danny explained, [03:38] you look ahead and you try to figure out all the things that could go wrong, [03:42] and then you try to figure out what you can do [03:45] to prevent those things from happening, or to minimize the damage. [03:48] So what I want to talk to you about today [03:51] are some of the things we can do in the form of a pre-mortem. [03:55] Some of them are obvious, some of them are not so obvious. [03:58] I'll start with the obvious ones. [03:59] Around the home, designate a place for things that are easily lost. [04:05] Now, this sounds like common sense, and it is, [04:09] but there's a lot of science to back this up, [04:12] based on the way our spatial memory works. [04:15] There's a structure in the brain called the hippocampus, [04:18] that evolved over tens of thousands of years, [04:21] to keep track of the locations of important things -- [04:25] where the well is, where fish can be found, [04:27] that stand of fruit trees, [04:30] where the friendly and enemy tribes live. [04:32] The hippocampus is the part of the brain [04:34] that in London taxicab drivers becomes enlarged. [04:38] It's the part of the brain that allows squirrels to find their nuts. [04:41] And if you're wondering, somebody actually did the experiment [04:44] where they cut off the olfactory sense of the squirrels, [04:47] and they could still find their nuts. [04:49] They weren't using smell, they were using the hippocampus, [04:52] this exquisitely evolved mechanism in the brain for finding things. [04:57] But it's really good for things that don't move around much, [05:01] not so good for things that move around. [05:03] So this is why we lose car keys and reading glasses and passports. [05:07] So in the home, designate a spot for your keys -- [05:10] a hook by the door, maybe a decorative bowl. [05:13] For your passport, a particular drawer. [05:15] For your reading glasses, a particular table. [05:18] If you designate a spot and you're scrupulous about it, [05:21] your things will always be there when you look for them. [05:24] What about travel? [05:25] Take a cell phone picture of your credit cards, [05:28] your driver's license, your passport, [05:30] mail it to yourself so it's in the cloud. [05:32] If these things are lost or stolen, you can facilitate replacement. [05:37] Now these are some rather obvious things. [05:39] Remember, when you're under stress, the brain releases cortisol. [05:43] Cortisol is toxic, and it causes cloudy thinking. [05:46] So part of the practice of the pre-mortem [05:49] is to recognize that under stress you're not going to be at your best, [05:53] and you should put systems in place. [05:55] And there's perhaps no more stressful a situation [05:58] than when you're confronted with a medical decision to make. [06:02] And at some point, all of us are going to be in that position, [06:05] where we have to make a very important decision [06:07] about the future of our medical care or that of a loved one, [06:11] to help them with a decision. [06:12] And so I want to talk about that. [06:14] And I'm going to talk about a very particular medical condition. [06:17] But this stands as a proxy for all kinds of medical decision-making, [06:21] and indeed for financial decision-making, and social decision-making -- [06:25] any kind of decision you have to make [06:27] that would benefit from a rational assessment of the facts. [06:31] So suppose you go to your doctor and the doctor says, [06:34] "I just got your lab work back, your cholesterol's a little high." [06:39] Now, you all know that high cholesterol [06:42] is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, [06:46] heart attack, stroke. [06:47] And so you're thinking [06:49] having high cholesterol isn't the best thing, [06:51] and so the doctor says, "You know, I'd like to give you a drug [06:54] that will help you lower your cholesterol, a statin." [06:57] And you've probably heard of statins, [06:59] you know that they're among the most widely prescribed drugs [07:01] in the world today, [07:03] you probably even know people who take them. [07:05] And so you're thinking, "Yeah! Give me the statin." [07:07] But there's a question you should ask at this point, [07:10] a statistic you should ask for [07:11] that most doctors don't like talking about, [07:14] and pharmaceutical companies like talking about even less. [07:18] It's for the number needed to treat. [07:21] Now, what is this, the NNT? [07:23] It's the number of people that need to take a drug [07:26] or undergo a surgery or any medical procedure [07:29] before one person is helped. [07:31] And you're thinking, what kind of crazy statistic is that? [07:34] The number should be one. [07:35] My doctor wouldn't prescribe something to me [07:37] if it's not going to help. [07:39] But actually, medical practice doesn't work that way. [07:41] And it's not the doctor's fault, [07:43] if it's anybody's fault, it's the fault of scientists like me. [07:46] We haven't figured out the underlying mechanisms well enough. [07:48] But GlaxoSmithKline estimates [07:51] that 90 percent of the drugs work in only 30 to 50 percent of the people. [07:56] So the number needed to treat for the most widely prescribed statin, [08:00] what do you suppose it is? [08:02] How many people have to take it before one person is helped? [08:05] 300. [08:07] This is according to research [08:08] by research practitioners Jerome Groopman and Pamela Hartzband, [08:12] independently confirmed by Bloomberg.com. [08:14] I ran through the numbers myself. [08:17] 300 people have to take the drug for a year [08:20] before one heart attack, stroke or other adverse event is prevented. [08:24] Now you're probably thinking, [08:25] "Well, OK, one in 300 chance of lowering my cholesterol. [08:28] Why not, doc? Give me the prescription anyway." [08:30] But you should ask at this point for another statistic, [08:33] and that is, "Tell me about the side effects." Right? [08:36] So for this particular drug, [08:37] the side effects occur in five percent of the patients. [08:41] And they include terrible things -- [08:43] debilitating muscle and joint pain, gastrointestinal distress -- [08:47] but now you're thinking, "Five percent, [08:49] not very likely it's going to happen to me, [08:51] I'll still take the drug." [08:52] But wait a minute. [08:54] Remember under stress you're not thinking clearly. [08:56] So think about how you're going to work through this ahead of time, [08:59] so you don't have to manufacture the chain of reasoning on the spot. [09:02] 300 people take the drug, right? One person's helped, [09:05] five percent of those 300 have side effects, [09:07] that's 15 people. [09:09] You're 15 times more likely to be harmed by the drug [09:13] than you are to be helped by the drug. [09:16] Now, I'm not saying whether you should take the statin or not. [09:19] I'm just saying you should have this conversation with your doctor. [09:22] Medical ethics requires it, [09:24] it's part of the principle of informed consent. [09:26] You have the right to have access to this kind of information [09:29] to begin the conversation about whether you want to take the risks or not. [09:33] Now you might be thinking [09:34] I've pulled this number out of the air for shock value, [09:37] but in fact it's rather typical, this number needed to treat. [09:40] For the most widely performed surgery on men over the age of 50, [09:45] removal of the prostate for cancer, [09:47] the number needed to treat is 49. [09:50] That's right, 49 surgeries are done for every one person who's helped. [09:54] And the side effects in that case occur in 50 percent of the patients. [09:59] They include impotence, erectile dysfunction, [10:01] urinary incontinence, rectal tearing, [10:04] fecal incontinence. [10:06] And if you're lucky, and you're one of the 50 percent who has these, [10:09] they'll only last for a year or two. [10:12] So the idea of the pre-mortem is to think ahead of time [10:16] to the questions that you might be able to ask [10:19] that will push the conversation forward. [10:21] You don't want to have to manufacture all of this on the spot. [10:24] And you also want to think about things like quality of life. [10:27] Because you have a choice oftentimes, [10:29] do you I want a shorter life that's pain-free, [10:31] or a longer life that might have a great deal of pain towards the end? [10:35] These are things to talk about and think about now, [10:37] with your family and your loved ones. [10:39] You might change your mind in the heat of the moment, [10:42] but at least you're practiced with this kind of thinking. [10:45] Remember, our brain under stress releases cortisol, [10:49] and one of the things that happens at that moment [10:52] is a whole bunch on systems shut down. [10:54] There's an evolutionary reason for this. [10:56] Face-to-face with a predator, you don't need your digestive system, [10:59] or your libido, or your immune system, [11:02] because if you're body is expending metabolism on those things [11:05] and you don't react quickly, [11:07] you might become the lion's lunch, and then none of those things matter. [11:11] Unfortunately, [11:12] one of the things that goes out the window during those times of stress [11:16] is rational, logical thinking, [11:18] as Danny Kahneman and his colleagues have shown. [11:22] So we need to train ourselves to think ahead [11:25] to these kinds of situations. [11:27] I think the important point here is recognizing that all of us are flawed. [11:33] We all are going to fail now and then. [11:36] The idea is to think ahead to what those failures might be, [11:40] to put systems in place that will help minimize the damage, [11:44] or to prevent the bad things from happening in the first place. [11:48] Getting back to that snowy night in Montreal, [11:50] when I got back from my trip, [11:52] I had my contractor install a combination lock next to the door, [11:56] with a key to the front door in it, an easy to remember combination. [12:00] And I have to admit, [12:01] I still have piles of mail that haven't been sorted, [12:04] and piles of emails that I haven't gone through. [12:07] So I'm not completely organized, [12:09] but I see organization as a gradual process, [12:12] and I'm getting there. [12:13] Thank you very much. [12:14] (Applause)