# URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ctwc8t5CsQs

Video
Chess is When You Microdose Infinity

Transcript
Kind: captions Language: en Sakov opens with D4. Centivic replies [00:02] Sakov opens with D4. Centivic replies D5, then C4. And that's the Queen's [00:05] D5, then C4. And that's the Queen's [00:05] D5, then C4. And that's the Queen's Gambit declined. Both horses out now in [00:08] Gambit declined. Both horses out now in [00:08] Gambit declined. Both horses out now in the double clop defense. Sakov takes on [00:10] the double clop defense. Sakov takes on [00:10] the double clop defense. Sakov takes on D5. Centivic with a recapture. Then a [00:13] D5. Centivic with a recapture. Then a [00:13] D5. Centivic with a recapture. Then a hairline fracture. Cleopatra coming at [00:15] hairline fracture. Cleopatra coming at [00:15] hairline fracture. Cleopatra coming at you. Margaret Thatcher in a dacer. King [00:18] you. Margaret Thatcher in a dacer. King [00:18] you. Margaret Thatcher in a dacer. King fling diagonal winging and then Socrates [00:20] fling diagonal winging and then Socrates [00:20] fling diagonal winging and then Socrates in a G-string. Declined. Now slides to [00:23] in a G-string. Declined. Now slides to [00:23] in a G-string. Declined. Now slides to the left. Two hops this time. Charlie [00:25] the left. Two hops this time. Charlie [00:25] the left. Two hops this time. Charlie Brown. Next. A vulgar gesture from [00:27] Brown. Next. A vulgar gesture from [00:27] Brown. Next. A vulgar gesture from Sakalov. Centivic counters by stamping [00:30] Sakalov. Centivic counters by stamping [00:30] Sakalov. Centivic counters by stamping on his opponent's foot. Sakalov has [00:32] on his opponent's foot. Sakalov has [00:32] on his opponent's foot. Sakalov has turned his attention to the crowd to [00:33] turned his attention to the crowd to [00:33] turned his attention to the crowd to romantically proposition Centivich's [00:35] romantically proposition Centivich's [00:35] romantically proposition Centivich's mother and is quite understandably [00:38] mother and is quite understandably [00:38] mother and is quite understandably declined. Then the Biddington scrambler, [00:41] declined. Then the Biddington scrambler, [00:41] declined. Then the Biddington scrambler, the French Judy Dench, the Croatian [00:43] the French Judy Dench, the Croatian [00:43] the French Judy Dench, the Croatian crustation and piss in a plastic cup and [00:45] crustation and piss in a plastic cup and [00:45] crustation and piss in a plastic cup and give it to a vicar. Now the traditional [00:48] give it to a vicar. Now the traditional [00:48] give it to a vicar. Now the traditional 30 minutes for Jagger bombs, 20 minutes [00:50] 30 minutes for Jagger bombs, 20 minutes [00:50] 30 minutes for Jagger bombs, 20 minutes for random moves and Gentich informs his [00:52] for random moves and Gentich informs his [00:52] for random moves and Gentich informs his opponent he is a despicable troglodite [00:54] opponent he is a despicable troglodite [00:54] opponent he is a despicable troglodite who probably shags pelicans. Then takes [00:57] who probably shags pelicans. Then takes [00:57] who probably shags pelicans. Then takes takes takes snakes snakes snakes fras [01:00] takes takes snakes snakes snakes fras [01:00] takes takes snakes snakes snakes fras frags 30 love and by jingo that's number [01:03] frags 30 love and by jingo that's number [01:03] frags 30 love and by jingo that's number wang. Now Centovich breaks into [01:05] wang. Now Centovich breaks into [01:05] wang. Now Centovich breaks into Sakalov's house and licks all of his [01:06] Sakalov's house and licks all of his [01:06] Sakalov's house and licks all of his fruit. Unconventional move there. [01:08] fruit. Unconventional move there. [01:08] fruit. Unconventional move there. Sakalov files a restraining order. [01:10] Sakalov files a restraining order. [01:10] Sakalov files a restraining order. Centivich assembles a small militia of [01:12] Centivich assembles a small militia of [01:12] Centivich assembles a small militia of armed capiaras. Sakalov petitions the UN [01:15] armed capiaras. Sakalov petitions the UN [01:15] armed capiaras. Sakalov petitions the UN for a nuclear strike. Centivich contacts [01:17] for a nuclear strike. Centivich contacts [01:17] for a nuclear strike. Centivich contacts extraterrestrials for assistance, but [01:19] extraterrestrials for assistance, but [01:19] extraterrestrials for assistance, but last night was a wild one. Sakalov [01:21] last night was a wild one. Sakalov [01:21] last night was a wild one. Sakalov initiates a blood pact with Lamashtu, [01:23] initiates a blood pact with Lamashtu, [01:23] initiates a blood pact with Lamashtu, the Mesopotamian goddess of pure evil, [01:25] the Mesopotamian goddess of pure evil, [01:25] the Mesopotamian goddess of pure evil, and summons the malevolent forces of [01:26] and summons the malevolent forces of [01:26] and summons the malevolent forces of hell. Very cheeky. While Centivich [01:29] hell. Very cheeky. While Centivich [01:29] hell. Very cheeky. While Centivich assumes control of the laws of nature, [01:30] assumes control of the laws of nature, [01:30] assumes control of the laws of nature, destabilizes the Hicksfield, beginning [01:32] destabilizes the Hicksfield, beginning [01:32] destabilizes the Hicksfield, beginning the collapse of physical reality, also [01:34] the collapse of physical reality, also [01:34] the collapse of physical reality, also known as the extra fluffy German spits [01:36] known as the extra fluffy German spits [01:36] known as the extra fluffy German spits apocalypse, leading us to the obvious [01:38] apocalypse, leading us to the obvious [01:38] apocalypse, leading us to the obvious question, who actually enjoys playing [01:41] question, who actually enjoys playing [01:41] question, who actually enjoys playing this [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] game. It began about 1500 years ago in India [01:48] It began about 1500 years ago in India with a game called Chataranga. You can [01:50] with a game called Chataranga. You can [01:50] with a game called Chataranga. You can still play it today. There's no queen, [01:52] still play it today. There's no queen, [01:52] still play it today. There's no queen, but there are elephants. And in the [01:54] but there are elephants. And in the [01:54] but there are elephants. And in the unlikely event that you have three [01:55] unlikely event that you have three [01:55] unlikely event that you have three friends, there's a four-player version. [01:57] friends, there's a four-player version. [01:57] friends, there's a four-player version. Lovely. Anyway, it ended up in Persia a [01:59] Lovely. Anyway, it ended up in Persia a [02:00] Lovely. Anyway, it ended up in Persia a century or so later and evolved into a [02:01] century or so later and evolved into a [02:01] century or so later and evolved into a similar game called Shatrange. It was [02:03] similar game called Shatrange. It was [02:03] similar game called Shatrange. It was the Persians who introduced the idea of [02:05] the Persians who introduced the idea of [02:05] the Persians who introduced the idea of checkmates from Shak for king and [02:08] checkmates from Shak for king and [02:08] checkmates from Shak for king and Shakmat meaning the king is boned, [02:10] Shakmat meaning the king is boned, [02:10] Shakmat meaning the king is boned, ending the game. Next, Emperor Teima [02:12] ending the game. Next, Emperor Teima [02:12] ending the game. Next, Emperor Teima popped up in Central Asia and threw in [02:14] popped up in Central Asia and threw in [02:14] popped up in Central Asia and threw in giraffes and camels and war engines. [02:17] giraffes and camels and war engines. [02:17] giraffes and camels and war engines. Then the Chinese added cannons. toot. [02:19] Then the Chinese added cannons. toot. [02:19] Then the Chinese added cannons. toot. And finally, Europe got its feudely [02:21] And finally, Europe got its feudely [02:21] And finally, Europe got its feudely little hands on the thing and brought in [02:23] little hands on the thing and brought in [02:23] little hands on the thing and brought in castling and two square advancing pawns. [02:25] castling and two square advancing pawns. [02:25] castling and two square advancing pawns. And by the 1800s, it was more or less [02:27] And by the 1800s, it was more or less [02:27] And by the 1800s, it was more or less the rules we despise today. So this [02:30] the rules we despise today. So this [02:30] the rules we despise today. So this cat-handed liability is the king. He can [02:32] cat-handed liability is the king. He can [02:32] cat-handed liability is the king. He can do a staggering one square move in any [02:34] do a staggering one square move in any [02:34] do a staggering one square move in any direction. [02:37] direction. [02:37] direction. And this is the queen. Originally, the [02:39] And this is the queen. Originally, the [02:39] And this is the queen. Originally, the queen was called the adviser and could [02:41] queen was called the adviser and could [02:41] queen was called the adviser and could only move one diagonal square. But the [02:43] only move one diagonal square. But the [02:43] only move one diagonal square. But the 15th century was a time of powerful [02:45] 15th century was a time of powerful [02:45] 15th century was a time of powerful ladies, particularly Queen Isabella of [02:48] ladies, particularly Queen Isabella of [02:48] ladies, particularly Queen Isabella of Spain, and it's possible that Spanish [02:50] Spain, and it's possible that Spanish [02:50] Spain, and it's possible that Spanish scholars turned God mode on for that [02:51] scholars turned God mode on for that [02:51] scholars turned God mode on for that piece in honor of her. Today, she can do [02:54] piece in honor of her. Today, she can do [02:54] piece in honor of her. Today, she can do whatever she bloody likes. [02:57] whatever she bloody likes. [02:57] whatever she bloody likes. Then there are the knights who have [02:59] Then there are the knights who have [02:59] Then there are the knights who have always taken the L like this. [03:02] always taken the L like this. [03:02] always taken the L like this. You might say, "Does that look like a [03:03] You might say, "Does that look like a [03:04] You might say, "Does that look like a knight? Really? What kind of mentalist [03:06] knight? Really? What kind of mentalist [03:06] knight? Really? What kind of mentalist was giving military titles to animals?" [03:08] was giving military titles to animals?" [03:08] was giving military titles to animals?" Well, this is Staff Sergeant Reckless. [03:10] Well, this is Staff Sergeant Reckless. [03:10] Well, this is Staff Sergeant Reckless. No, no. This is Staff Sergeant Reckless. [03:13] No, no. This is Staff Sergeant Reckless. [03:13] No, no. This is Staff Sergeant Reckless. She fought in the Korean War and the US [03:15] She fought in the Korean War and the US [03:15] She fought in the Korean War and the US Army was so impressed they promoted her [03:17] Army was so impressed they promoted her [03:17] Army was so impressed they promoted her twice. Then this is Neil's Olaf, a [03:19] twice. Then this is Neil's Olaf, a [03:19] twice. Then this is Neil's Olaf, a brigadier in the Norwegian King's Guard. [03:21] brigadier in the Norwegian King's Guard. [03:21] brigadier in the Norwegian King's Guard. And this is William Windsor, a goat who [03:24] And this is William Windsor, a goat who [03:24] And this is William Windsor, a goat who was a lance corporal in the British [03:25] was a lance corporal in the British [03:25] was a lance corporal in the British Army. Though after headbutting a drummer [03:28] Army. Though after headbutting a drummer [03:28] Army. Though after headbutting a drummer during the Queen's birthday party, what [03:30] during the Queen's birthday party, what [03:30] during the Queen's birthday party, what the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] William? He was demoted down [03:32] the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] William? He was demoted down [03:32] the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] William? He was demoted down to fuselier. Some animal lovers [03:35] to fuselier. Some animal lovers [03:35] to fuselier. Some animal lovers protested and luckily his rank was [03:36] protested and luckily his rank was [03:36] protested and luckily his rank was reinstated. So why shouldn't horses be [03:39] reinstated. So why shouldn't horses be [03:39] reinstated. So why shouldn't horses be knights? Don't you feel like a bastard [03:40] knights? Don't you feel like a bastard [03:40] knights? Don't you feel like a bastard now? Then there are the bishops zipping [03:43] now? Then there are the bishops zipping [03:43] now? Then there are the bishops zipping about in the diagonals. [03:45] about in the diagonals. [03:45] about in the diagonals. Originally in chess, bishops were [03:47] Originally in chess, bishops were [03:47] Originally in chess, bishops were elephants, but we don't really do war [03:49] elephants, but we don't really do war [03:49] elephants, but we don't really do war elephants in Europe, so that got [03:51] elephants in Europe, so that got [03:51] elephants in Europe, so that got dropped. And finally, there are the [03:52] dropped. And finally, there are the [03:52] dropped. And finally, there are the rooks or castles, originally called [03:54] rooks or castles, originally called [03:54] rooks or castles, originally called chariots, who can only move vertically [03:56] chariots, who can only move vertically [03:56] chariots, who can only move vertically and horizontally like so. And oh god, [03:59] and horizontally like so. And oh god, [03:59] and horizontally like so. And oh god, I'm so sorry about this. Maxmillion, [04:01] I'm so sorry about this. Maxmillion, [04:01] I'm so sorry about this. Maxmillion, you're fired. Today, there are lots of [04:03] you're fired. Today, there are lots of [04:03] you're fired. Today, there are lots of variations of chess. Fisher random, [04:05] variations of chess. Fisher random, [04:05] variations of chess. Fisher random, where the back rank pieces are [04:07] where the back rank pieces are [04:07] where the back rank pieces are scrambled. anti-chess, where the goal is [04:09] scrambled. anti-chess, where the goal is [04:09] scrambled. anti-chess, where the goal is to lose as hard as possible. I know the [04:11] to lose as hard as possible. I know the [04:11] to lose as hard as possible. I know the feeling. Then there's chess on a really [04:13] feeling. Then there's chess on a really [04:13] feeling. Then there's chess on a really big board, which is perhaps the most [04:15] big board, which is perhaps the most [04:15] big board, which is perhaps the most straightforward wiki title since Death [04:17] straightforward wiki title since Death [04:17] straightforward wiki title since Death by Coconut or Feast of the Ass. Anyway, [04:21] by Coconut or Feast of the Ass. Anyway, [04:21] by Coconut or Feast of the Ass. Anyway, it's been centuries, and of all games, [04:23] it's been centuries, and of all games, [04:23] it's been centuries, and of all games, why do humans still like this one? Well, [04:25] why do humans still like this one? Well, [04:25] why do humans still like this one? Well, for one thing, chess is really useful [04:27] for one thing, chess is really useful [04:27] for one thing, chess is really useful for metaphors. Islamic philosophers [04:29] for metaphors. Islamic philosophers [04:29] for metaphors. Islamic philosophers thought that it taught patience and [04:31] thought that it taught patience and [04:31] thought that it taught patience and reasoning. For fighty Europeans, it was [04:33] reasoning. For fighty Europeans, it was [04:33] reasoning. For fighty Europeans, it was a miniaturized battleground. Today, it [04:35] a miniaturized battleground. Today, it [04:35] a miniaturized battleground. Today, it could apply to anything. For example, [04:37] could apply to anything. For example, [04:37] could apply to anything. For example, there's zwang, which is where you find [04:40] there's zwang, which is where you find [04:40] there's zwang, which is where you find yourself in a position where every move [04:41] yourself in a position where every move [04:41] yourself in a position where every move is a bad one, but you have to move. [04:44] is a bad one, but you have to move. [04:44] is a bad one, but you have to move. Sounds a bit like life, or how the game [04:46] Sounds a bit like life, or how the game [04:46] Sounds a bit like life, or how the game is a collaboration, but ultimately [04:48] is a collaboration, but ultimately [04:48] is a collaboration, but ultimately you're completely alone in your [04:49] you're completely alone in your [04:49] you're completely alone in your mistakes. You know, like life. Speaking [04:52] mistakes. You know, like life. Speaking [04:52] mistakes. You know, like life. Speaking as a minus 18,000 ELO ship player, I [04:55] as a minus 18,000 ELO ship player, I [04:55] as a minus 18,000 ELO ship player, I quite like the feeling when you end up [04:56] quite like the feeling when you end up [04:56] quite like the feeling when you end up in a position with too many moving parts [04:58] in a position with too many moving parts [04:58] in a position with too many moving parts with each choice as a door before you [05:01] with each choice as a door before you [05:01] with each choice as a door before you and you have very little idea of what's [05:02] and you have very little idea of what's [05:02] and you have very little idea of what's coming next because at that point you [05:04] coming next because at that point you [05:04] coming next because at that point you have stepped into a million uncertain [05:06] have stepped into a million uncertain [05:06] have stepped into a million uncertain futures like life. Chess looks like a [05:09] futures like life. Chess looks like a [05:09] futures like life. Chess looks like a board game, but it's an infinity [05:11] board game, but it's an infinity [05:11] board game, but it's an infinity simulator. That's what it does. That's [05:13] simulator. That's what it does. That's [05:13] simulator. That's what it does. That's probably why humans enjoy it so much. [05:15] probably why humans enjoy it so much. [05:15] probably why humans enjoy it so much. Says who? Says me. I just wrote it down. [05:17] Says who? Says me. I just wrote it down. [05:17] Says who? Says me. I just wrote it down. Take it up with my mom. It teaches [05:19] Take it up with my mom. It teaches [05:19] Take it up with my mom. It teaches humans how to confront the horrible [05:21] humans how to confront the horrible [05:21] humans how to confront the horrible infinite. [05:23] infinite. [05:23] infinite. [Music] [05:24] [Music] [05:24] [Music] And on that note, let's say you're [05:26] And on that note, let's say you're [05:26] And on that note, let's say you're chronically unemployed on a Tuesday [05:28] chronically unemployed on a Tuesday [05:28] chronically unemployed on a Tuesday afternoon and you've ended up playing [05:29] afternoon and you've ended up playing [05:29] afternoon and you've ended up playing chess online against some random whoever [05:32] chess online against some random whoever [05:32] chess online against some random whoever and your opponent captures your knight. [05:34] and your opponent captures your knight. [05:34] and your opponent captures your knight. How would you continue in this position? [05:36] How would you continue in this position? [05:36] How would you continue in this position? I'll give you a moment. That's a moment. [05:39] I'll give you a moment. That's a moment. [05:39] I'll give you a moment. That's a moment. Well, their queen is right there, but [05:41] Well, their queen is right there, but [05:41] Well, their queen is right there, but that's checkmate from the rook if you [05:42] that's checkmate from the rook if you [05:42] that's checkmate from the rook if you take it. You could try to stop the pawn [05:44] take it. You could try to stop the pawn [05:44] take it. You could try to stop the pawn promoting with your bishop, but that's [05:46] promoting with your bishop, but that's [05:46] promoting with your bishop, but that's your rook gone and checkmate anyway. And [05:48] your rook gone and checkmate anyway. And [05:48] your rook gone and checkmate anyway. And if you try to defend with the rook, [05:49] if you try to defend with the rook, [05:50] if you try to defend with the rook, that's just going to be a long, slow [05:51] that's just going to be a long, slow [05:51] that's just going to be a long, slow death. You're screwed. But that's okay. [05:53] death. You're screwed. But that's okay. [05:54] death. You're screwed. But that's okay. You can't win them all. This is what [05:55] You can't win them all. This is what [05:55] You can't win them all. This is what chess is all about. Learning to be [05:57] chess is all about. Learning to be [05:57] chess is all about. Learning to be defeated with dignity. So what now? [06:00] defeated with dignity. So what now? [06:00] defeated with dignity. So what now? Well, you take a breath. You promise to [06:03] Well, you take a breath. You promise to [06:03] Well, you take a breath. You promise to learn from your mistakes. Then you [06:04] learn from your mistakes. Then you [06:04] learn from your mistakes. Then you congratulate your opponent and move on [06:06] congratulate your opponent and move on [06:06] congratulate your opponent and move on to your next No, actually, what's their [06:07] to your next No, actually, what's their [06:08] to your next No, actually, what's their username again? Alan Sharp 91. H. You go [06:11] username again? Alan Sharp 91. H. You go [06:11] username again? Alan Sharp 91. H. You go through their game history. Nothing [06:12] through their game history. Nothing [06:12] through their game history. Nothing there except he keeps playing someone [06:14] there except he keeps playing someone [06:14] there except he keeps playing someone called Robin Sharp. Same last name. [06:17] called Robin Sharp. Same last name. [06:17] called Robin Sharp. Same last name. Maybe that's a relative or something. [06:19] Maybe that's a relative or something. [06:19] Maybe that's a relative or something. And oh yeah, you find the same profile [06:20] And oh yeah, you find the same profile [06:20] And oh yeah, you find the same profile on social media, so that must be him. [06:23] on social media, so that must be him. [06:23] on social media, so that must be him. And he has a friend called Alan Sharp. [06:25] And he has a friend called Alan Sharp. [06:25] And he has a friend called Alan Sharp. That's almost definitely the guy you're [06:27] That's almost definitely the guy you're [06:27] That's almost definitely the guy you're playing, isn't it? Ah, he likes scuba [06:29] playing, isn't it? Ah, he likes scuba [06:29] playing, isn't it? Ah, he likes scuba diving and novelty sized mini owls. [06:31] diving and novelty sized mini owls. [06:31] diving and novelty sized mini owls. Nice. And apparently he works as a [06:33] Nice. And apparently he works as a [06:33] Nice. And apparently he works as a London money person or something at this [06:35] London money person or something at this [06:35] London money person or something at this company that you definitely didn't just [06:36] company that you definitely didn't just [06:36] company that you definitely didn't just look up. And oh, there's his phone [06:38] look up. And oh, there's his phone [06:38] look up. And oh, there's his phone number. Well, that was easy. I mean, [06:40] number. Well, that was easy. I mean, [06:40] number. Well, that was easy. I mean, obviously you're not going to actually [06:41] obviously you're not going to actually [06:41] obviously you're not going to actually use it, though. That would be completely [06:42] use it, though. That would be completely [06:42] use it, though. That would be completely inappropriate. Hello. [06:48] Hello. &gt;&gt; Oh, hello. Uh, I was trying to get a [06:50] &gt;&gt; Oh, hello. Uh, I was trying to get a [06:50] &gt;&gt; Oh, hello. Uh, I was trying to get a hold of Alan if possible. [06:51] hold of Alan if possible. [06:51] hold of Alan if possible. &gt;&gt; Oh, I think he's around. Can you give me [06:53] &gt;&gt; Oh, I think he's around. Can you give me [06:53] &gt;&gt; Oh, I think he's around. Can you give me a second? [06:54] a second? [06:54] a second? &gt;&gt; Yeah, of course. Sorry. I I didn't mean [06:55] &gt;&gt; Yeah, of course. Sorry. I I didn't mean [06:55] &gt;&gt; Yeah, of course. Sorry. I I didn't mean to interrupt whatever you were up to. [06:56] to interrupt whatever you were up to. [06:56] to interrupt whatever you were up to. &gt;&gt; Oh, no. That's fine. That's fine. Just [06:58] &gt;&gt; Oh, no. That's fine. That's fine. Just [06:58] &gt;&gt; Oh, no. That's fine. That's fine. Just let me see if I can find him. How's your [07:00] let me see if I can find him. How's your [07:00] let me see if I can find him. How's your day going today? [07:01] day going today? [07:01] day going today? &gt;&gt; Oh, it's great, thanks. How about you? [07:03] &gt;&gt; Oh, it's great, thanks. How about you? [07:03] &gt;&gt; Oh, it's great, thanks. How about you? &gt;&gt; Yeah, excellent. Thank you. Right, here [07:05] &gt;&gt; Yeah, excellent. Thank you. Right, here [07:05] &gt;&gt; Yeah, excellent. Thank you. Right, here he is now. [07:06] he is now. [07:06] he is now. &gt;&gt; Oh, thank you so much. I really [07:07] &gt;&gt; Oh, thank you so much. I really [07:07] &gt;&gt; Oh, thank you so much. I really appreciate that. [07:08] appreciate that. [07:08] appreciate that. &gt;&gt; No, the pleasure is all mine. Have a [07:09] &gt;&gt; No, the pleasure is all mine. Have a [07:09] &gt;&gt; No, the pleasure is all mine. Have a lovely day. [Music] Hello. [07:36] Hello. &gt;&gt; Oh, hello there. So, sorry to bother [07:37] &gt;&gt; Oh, hello there. So, sorry to bother [07:38] &gt;&gt; Oh, hello there. So, sorry to bother you. [07:38] you. [07:38] you. &gt;&gt; No, that's all right. Uh, what can I do [07:40] &gt;&gt; No, that's all right. Uh, what can I do [07:40] &gt;&gt; No, that's all right. Uh, what can I do for you? [07:40] for you? [07:40] for you? &gt;&gt; Sorry, strange question. Um, are you [07:42] &gt;&gt; Sorry, strange question. Um, are you [07:42] &gt;&gt; Sorry, strange question. Um, are you playing chess online at the moment? [07:44] playing chess online at the moment? [07:44] playing chess online at the moment? &gt;&gt; Uh, yeah. [07:45] &gt;&gt; Uh, yeah. [07:45] &gt;&gt; Uh, yeah. &gt;&gt; Outstanding. Well, listen, Alan. [07:47] &gt;&gt; Outstanding. Well, listen, Alan. [07:47] &gt;&gt; Outstanding. Well, listen, Alan. Wonderful to meet you. Um, I just want [07:49] Wonderful to meet you. Um, I just want [07:49] Wonderful to meet you. Um, I just want to invite you to go [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] yourself. Great [07:52] to invite you to go [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] yourself. Great [07:52] to invite you to go [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] yourself. Great chess players aren't computers, they are [07:54] chess players aren't computers, they are [07:54] chess players aren't computers, they are artists. And like great artists, they [07:56] artists. And like great artists, they [07:56] artists. And like great artists, they dance with infinity. My hero, and [07:59] dance with infinity. My hero, and [07:59] dance with infinity. My hero, and perhaps yours, is a chess demon called [08:01] perhaps yours, is a chess demon called [08:01] perhaps yours, is a chess demon called Mikall Tal, who often gave away valuable [08:04] Mikall Tal, who often gave away valuable [08:04] Mikall Tal, who often gave away valuable pieces like they were tic tacs. For [08:05] pieces like they were tic tacs. For [08:06] pieces like they were tic tacs. For example, just donating a queen here. Why [08:08] example, just donating a queen here. Why [08:08] example, just donating a queen here. Why do this? Because then you can do this [08:10] do this? Because then you can do this [08:10] do this? Because then you can do this and this and this. Disgusting. In his [08:14] and this and this. Disgusting. In his [08:14] and this and this. Disgusting. In his words, you must take your opponents into [08:16] words, you must take your opponents into [08:16] words, you must take your opponents into a deep dark forest where two and two [08:18] a deep dark forest where two and two [08:18] a deep dark forest where two and two make five and the path leading out is [08:20] make five and the path leading out is [08:20] make five and the path leading out is only wide enough for one. He was a [08:23] only wide enough for one. He was a [08:23] only wide enough for one. He was a magician, but many others had a more [08:25] magician, but many others had a more [08:25] magician, but many others had a more unpleasant relationship to infinity. [08:27] unpleasant relationship to infinity. [08:27] unpleasant relationship to infinity. Paul Morphe was an American player in [08:29] Paul Morphe was an American player in [08:29] Paul Morphe was an American player in the 1800s who by his 20ies, having [08:32] the 1800s who by his 20ies, having [08:32] the 1800s who by his 20ies, having defeated all the major names in his own [08:34] defeated all the major names in his own [08:34] defeated all the major names in his own country, he then wandered over to Europe [08:36] country, he then wandered over to Europe [08:36] country, he then wandered over to Europe and absolutely mounted us as well. even [08:38] and absolutely mounted us as well. even [08:38] and absolutely mounted us as well. even once, thrashing eight opponents [08:40] once, thrashing eight opponents [08:40] once, thrashing eight opponents simultaneously while blindfolded. Then [08:43] simultaneously while blindfolded. Then [08:43] simultaneously while blindfolded. Then he lost interest and retired. He was [08:45] he lost interest and retired. He was [08:46] he lost interest and retired. He was probably just too good and eventually [08:47] probably just too good and eventually [08:47] probably just too good and eventually stopped playing entirely. He began to [08:50] stopped playing entirely. He began to [08:50] stopped playing entirely. He began to grow mentally distressed to say the [08:51] grow mentally distressed to say the [08:52] grow mentally distressed to say the least, convinced his brother-in-law was [08:53] least, convinced his brother-in-law was [08:53] least, convinced his brother-in-law was trying to ruin him and fell into years [08:55] trying to ruin him and fell into years [08:55] trying to ruin him and fell into years of paranoia. He died suddenly at 47 in [08:59] of paranoia. He died suddenly at 47 in [08:59] of paranoia. He died suddenly at 47 in the bath. He is often quoted for saying, [09:01] the bath. He is often quoted for saying, [09:01] the bath. He is often quoted for saying, "The ability to play chess is the sign [09:03] "The ability to play chess is the sign [09:03] "The ability to play chess is the sign of a gentleman. The ability to play jazz [09:05] of a gentleman. The ability to play jazz [09:05] of a gentleman. The ability to play jazz well is the sign of a wasted life. Then [09:08] well is the sign of a wasted life. Then [09:08] well is the sign of a wasted life. Then there was Alexander Allein. He was [09:10] there was Alexander Allein. He was [09:10] there was Alexander Allein. He was brilliant, but after a long career, he [09:13] brilliant, but after a long career, he [09:13] brilliant, but after a long career, he began turning up drunk at the chessboard [09:15] began turning up drunk at the chessboard [09:15] began turning up drunk at the chessboard and slipped also into paranoia. Big fan [09:18] and slipped also into paranoia. Big fan [09:18] and slipped also into paranoia. Big fan of cats, though. In 1935, he arrived at [09:20] of cats, though. In 1935, he arrived at [09:20] of cats, though. In 1935, he arrived at the Polish border without any documents [09:22] the Polish border without any documents [09:22] the Polish border without any documents and apparently declared, "I am a Leah, [09:25] and apparently declared, "I am a Leah, [09:25] and apparently declared, "I am a Leah, chess champion of the world. I have a [09:26] chess champion of the world. I have a [09:26] chess champion of the world. I have a cat called chess. I do not need papers." [09:29] cat called chess. I do not need papers." [09:29] cat called chess. I do not need papers." He was likely immediately arrested. Or [09:32] He was likely immediately arrested. Or [09:32] He was likely immediately arrested. Or there was Wilhelm Steinets. In the 19th [09:34] there was Wilhelm Steinets. In the 19th [09:34] there was Wilhelm Steinets. In the 19th century, most people were playing the [09:36] century, most people were playing the [09:36] century, most people were playing the romantic style, mostly tactics and wizzy [09:39] romantic style, mostly tactics and wizzy [09:39] romantic style, mostly tactics and wizzy tricks because good things come to those [09:40] tricks because good things come to those [09:40] tricks because good things come to those who bait. Steinitz disagreed. He [09:43] who bait. Steinitz disagreed. He [09:43] who bait. Steinitz disagreed. He realized that gambits are fun, but [09:45] realized that gambits are fun, but [09:45] realized that gambits are fun, but careful positioning could often break [09:47] careful positioning could often break [09:47] careful positioning could often break the smartest opponents. And it worked. [09:49] the smartest opponents. And it worked. [09:49] the smartest opponents. And it worked. He remained undefeated for 30 years and [09:52] He remained undefeated for 30 years and [09:52] He remained undefeated for 30 years and became the first ever official world [09:53] became the first ever official world [09:54] became the first ever official world champion. Finally, however, he was [09:55] champion. Finally, however, he was [09:56] champion. Finally, however, he was beaten by Emanuel Alaska and just never [09:58] beaten by Emanuel Alaska and just never [09:58] beaten by Emanuel Alaska and just never quite recovered. Chess didn't pay well [10:00] quite recovered. Chess didn't pay well [10:00] quite recovered. Chess didn't pay well back then and so began the years of [10:02] back then and so began the years of [10:02] back then and so began the years of poverty, isolation, and mental illness. [10:05] poverty, isolation, and mental illness. [10:05] poverty, isolation, and mental illness. By the time he was institutionalized, he [10:07] By the time he was institutionalized, he [10:07] By the time he was institutionalized, he claimed to be playing chess over the [10:09] claimed to be playing chess over the [10:09] claimed to be playing chess over the phone with God. When asked how it was [10:11] phone with God. When asked how it was [10:11] phone with God. When asked how it was going, Steinets replied, "I have the [10:13] going, Steinets replied, "I have the [10:13] going, Steinets replied, "I have the better position, but he's playing a very [10:15] better position, but he's playing a very [10:15] better position, but he's playing a very strong game." He died just a few years [10:17] strong game." He died just a few years [10:17] strong game." He died just a few years after that, completely penniless. I [10:19] after that, completely penniless. I [10:20] after that, completely penniless. I present to you the first chess champion [10:22] present to you the first chess champion [10:22] present to you the first chess champion of the world. Monomomania is an [10:24] of the world. Monomomania is an [10:24] of the world. Monomomania is an obsession with one thing to the [10:26] obsession with one thing to the [10:26] obsession with one thing to the exclusion of everything else, and chess [10:28] exclusion of everything else, and chess [10:28] exclusion of everything else, and chess seems extremely good at encouraging it. [10:30] seems extremely good at encouraging it. [10:30] seems extremely good at encouraging it. But why this game, though? Well, maybe [10:33] But why this game, though? Well, maybe [10:33] But why this game, though? Well, maybe because chess is easy to learn, but [10:35] because chess is easy to learn, but [10:35] because chess is easy to learn, but impossible to master. A kid could pick [10:37] impossible to master. A kid could pick [10:37] impossible to master. A kid could pick up the rules in an afternoon, but not [10:39] up the rules in an afternoon, but not [10:39] up the rules in an afternoon, but not even a 100 lifetimes would be enough to [10:41] even a 100 lifetimes would be enough to [10:41] even a 100 lifetimes would be enough to solve the game itself. The problem, of [10:43] solve the game itself. The problem, of [10:43] solve the game itself. The problem, of course, is exponential growth. When [10:46] course, is exponential growth. When [10:46] course, is exponential growth. When white begins a game, they have 20 moves [10:48] white begins a game, they have 20 moves [10:48] white begins a game, they have 20 moves available to them, so 20 possible [10:50] available to them, so 20 possible [10:50] available to them, so 20 possible positions. Then it's black's turn. And [10:52] positions. Then it's black's turn. And [10:52] positions. Then it's black's turn. And whatever they do, we've now moved into [10:54] whatever they do, we've now moved into [10:54] whatever they do, we've now moved into 400 possible positions. By white's next [10:57] 400 possible positions. By white's next [10:57] 400 possible positions. By white's next turn, that's now up to 8,92. [10:59] turn, that's now up to 8,92. [10:59] turn, that's now up to 8,92. And by the time each player has moved [11:01] And by the time each player has moved [11:01] And by the time each player has moved five times, we're now into 69 trillion [11:04] five times, we're now into 69 trillion [11:04] five times, we're now into 69 trillion possible positions. The mathematician [11:06] possible positions. The mathematician [11:06] possible positions. The mathematician Claude Shannon estimated that in a game [11:08] Claude Shannon estimated that in a game [11:08] Claude Shannon estimated that in a game of 40 moves, the number of all possible [11:10] of 40 moves, the number of all possible [11:10] of 40 moves, the number of all possible games is 10 to the power of 120. Now, to [11:14] games is 10 to the power of 120. Now, to [11:14] games is 10 to the power of 120. Now, to be clear, many of these would be useless [11:16] be clear, many of these would be useless [11:16] be clear, many of these would be useless things no one would ever play. But [11:18] things no one would ever play. But [11:18] things no one would ever play. But still, that's far more than the number [11:20] still, that's far more than the number [11:20] still, that's far more than the number of atoms in the observable universe. [11:22] of atoms in the observable universe. [11:22] of atoms in the observable universe. It's not hard to see why a few black and [11:24] It's not hard to see why a few black and [11:24] It's not hard to see why a few black and white squares on a board has claimed the [11:26] white squares on a board has claimed the [11:26] white squares on a board has claimed the peace of mind of many buzz, etc. As it turns out, bees bloody [11:34] buzz, etc. As it turns out, bees bloody love a spot of football, which is weird [11:37] love a spot of football, which is weird [11:37] love a spot of football, which is weird since it suggests they like playing for [11:39] since it suggests they like playing for [11:39] since it suggests they like playing for the sake of playing. Meaning maybe they [11:41] the sake of playing. Meaning maybe they [11:41] the sake of playing. Meaning maybe they have little bumblebee minds of a kind. [11:43] have little bumblebee minds of a kind. [11:43] have little bumblebee minds of a kind. Likewise, octopuses are partial to [11:45] Likewise, octopuses are partial to [11:45] Likewise, octopuses are partial to tugofwar. Otters juggle pebbles. And [11:47] tugofwar. Otters juggle pebbles. And [11:47] tugofwar. Otters juggle pebbles. And what about humans? Well, we seem to [11:50] what about humans? Well, we seem to [11:50] what about humans? Well, we seem to enjoy stuff that's just on the edge of [11:51] enjoy stuff that's just on the edge of [11:51] enjoy stuff that's just on the edge of understanding, then spirals off into [11:53] understanding, then spirals off into [11:53] understanding, then spirals off into chaos, which is to be expected. We are [11:56] chaos, which is to be expected. We are [11:56] chaos, which is to be expected. We are the monkeys who want to know infinity. [11:58] the monkeys who want to know infinity. [11:58] the monkeys who want to know infinity. But this isn't limited to complex games. [12:00] But this isn't limited to complex games. [12:00] But this isn't limited to complex games. Games are just how we micro do infinity. [12:03] Games are just how we micro do infinity. [12:03] Games are just how we micro do infinity. It's kind of impressive we don't all go [12:05] It's kind of impressive we don't all go [12:05] It's kind of impressive we don't all go mad from the infinity we find in our [12:06] mad from the infinity we find in our [12:06] mad from the infinity we find in our lives every day. For starters, there's [12:09] lives every day. For starters, there's [12:09] lives every day. For starters, there's the numbery kind of course. Like how the [12:11] the numbery kind of course. Like how the [12:11] the numbery kind of course. Like how the jump from 0 to 1 is larger than the jump [12:14] jump from 0 to 1 is larger than the jump [12:14] jump from 0 to 1 is larger than the jump from 1 to infinity somehow. No really. [12:17] from 1 to infinity somehow. No really. [12:18] from 1 to infinity somehow. No really. So if we start with a number line 1 2 3 [12:20] So if we start with a number line 1 2 3 [12:20] So if we start with a number line 1 2 3 4 and so on, you could always keep [12:22] 4 and so on, you could always keep [12:22] 4 and so on, you could always keep counting upwards obviously until you [12:24] counting upwards obviously until you [12:24] counting upwards obviously until you die. These are called natural numbers. [12:27] die. These are called natural numbers. [12:27] die. These are called natural numbers. Then there are the real numbers. Real [12:29] Then there are the real numbers. Real [12:29] Then there are the real numbers. Real numbers include fractions and decimals [12:31] numbers include fractions and decimals [12:31] numbers include fractions and decimals as well. 0.3 and 1 over 8 and whatever [12:34] as well. 0.3 and 1 over 8 and whatever [12:34] as well. 0.3 and 1 over 8 and whatever else. Both sets, the natural and the [12:37] else. Both sets, the natural and the [12:37] else. Both sets, the natural and the real numbers are infinite kind of. They [12:39] real numbers are infinite kind of. They [12:39] real numbers are infinite kind of. They never end. But which set is larger? The [12:42] never end. But which set is larger? The [12:42] never end. But which set is larger? The real numbers between 0 and 1 or the [12:44] real numbers between 0 and 1 or the [12:44] real numbers between 0 and 1 or the entire series of natural numbers all the [12:46] entire series of natural numbers all the [12:46] entire series of natural numbers all the way up to infinity? Well, to find out, [12:49] way up to infinity? Well, to find out, [12:49] way up to infinity? Well, to find out, we could just pair them one to one to [12:51] we could just pair them one to one to [12:51] we could just pair them one to one to see if both sets are the same size. So, [12:53] see if both sets are the same size. So, [12:53] see if both sets are the same size. So, we'll start with the natural number one [12:55] we'll start with the natural number one [12:55] we'll start with the natural number one and pair it to a real number, say 0.1, [12:58] and pair it to a real number, say 0.1, [12:58] and pair it to a real number, say 0.1, and then the natural number two. And [13:00] and then the natural number two. And [13:00] and then the natural number two. And we'll pair that with. But actually, why [13:03] we'll pair that with. But actually, why [13:03] we'll pair that with. But actually, why start with 0.1 as the first real number? [13:05] start with 0.1 as the first real number? [13:05] start with 0.1 as the first real number? Why not 01 or 0.1? We can always go [13:10] Why not 01 or 0.1? We can always go [13:10] Why not 01 or 0.1? We can always go smaller because natural numbers are [13:12] smaller because natural numbers are [13:12] smaller because natural numbers are countable even if you keep counting [13:13] countable even if you keep counting [13:13] countable even if you keep counting forever. Real numbers, decimals, and [13:16] forever. Real numbers, decimals, and [13:16] forever. Real numbers, decimals, and fractions are not. Which means that [13:18] fractions are not. Which means that [13:18] fractions are not. Which means that there must be more real numbers between [13:20] there must be more real numbers between [13:20] there must be more real numbers between 0 and 1 there are natural numbers ever. [13:23] 0 and 1 there are natural numbers ever. [13:23] 0 and 1 there are natural numbers ever. Some infinities are bigger than others [13:25] Some infinities are bigger than others [13:25] Some infinities are bigger than others because endlessness is everywhere and [13:28] because endlessness is everywhere and [13:28] because endlessness is everywhere and not just in maths. What about the causal [13:31] not just in maths. What about the causal [13:31] not just in maths. What about the causal kind? [13:33] kind? [13:33] kind? Years back, I was walking through a park [13:35] Years back, I was walking through a park [13:35] Years back, I was walking through a park in Europe when an elderly gentleman [13:37] in Europe when an elderly gentleman [13:37] in Europe when an elderly gentleman asked if I wanted a game of chess. I [13:39] asked if I wanted a game of chess. I [13:39] asked if I wanted a game of chess. I hadn't played in years, but what was the [13:40] hadn't played in years, but what was the [13:40] hadn't played in years, but what was the worst that could happen? I think I did [13:42] worst that could happen? I think I did [13:42] worst that could happen? I think I did okay for maybe the first 11 seconds. [13:45] okay for maybe the first 11 seconds. [13:45] okay for maybe the first 11 seconds. Then, with a kindly smile, the guy [13:47] Then, with a kindly smile, the guy [13:47] Then, with a kindly smile, the guy completely disassembled me. I walked [13:49] completely disassembled me. I walked [13:49] completely disassembled me. I walked home with my dignity miniature as a [13:51] home with my dignity miniature as a [13:51] home with my dignity miniature as a mouse condom and decided I didn't want [13:53] mouse condom and decided I didn't want [13:53] mouse condom and decided I didn't want to lose that stupidly ever again, which [13:55] to lose that stupidly ever again, which [13:55] to lose that stupidly ever again, which is how pushing wood eventually became a [13:57] is how pushing wood eventually became a [13:57] is how pushing wood eventually became a bit of an obsession. And a while later, [14:00] bit of an obsession. And a while later, [14:00] bit of an obsession. And a while later, here I am making the nonsense you're [14:01] here I am making the nonsense you're [14:02] here I am making the nonsense you're watching now. If it wasn't for that walk [14:04] watching now. If it wasn't for that walk [14:04] watching now. If it wasn't for that walk in that park on that day, I wouldn't be [14:06] in that park on that day, I wouldn't be [14:06] in that park on that day, I wouldn't be talking to you about any of this, and [14:08] talking to you about any of this, and [14:08] talking to you about any of this, and you wouldn't be wasting your time [14:09] you wouldn't be wasting your time [14:09] you wouldn't be wasting your time watching it. How much of that is [14:11] watching it. How much of that is [14:11] watching it. How much of that is happening every day to ourselves, to the [14:14] happening every day to ourselves, to the [14:14] happening every day to ourselves, to the world, our lives being born out of [14:15] world, our lives being born out of [14:15] world, our lives being born out of random coincidences in the infinite sea [14:18] random coincidences in the infinite sea [14:18] random coincidences in the infinite sea of all that could be? Like, what if Alex [14:21] of all that could be? Like, what if Alex [14:21] of all that could be? Like, what if Alex Fleming hadn't noticed the mold in the [14:22] Fleming hadn't noticed the mold in the [14:22] Fleming hadn't noticed the mold in the petri dish that gave the world [14:24] petri dish that gave the world [14:24] petri dish that gave the world penicellin? Or what if France [14:25] penicellin? Or what if France [14:25] penicellin? Or what if France Ferdinand's driver hadn't made a wrong [14:27] Ferdinand's driver hadn't made a wrong [14:27] Ferdinand's driver hadn't made a wrong turn setting off World War I? Or if the [14:29] turn setting off World War I? Or if the [14:29] turn setting off World War I? Or if the chicks love asteroid had broken up in [14:31] chicks love asteroid had broken up in [14:31] chicks love asteroid had broken up in the atmosphere instead, leaving the [14:33] the atmosphere instead, leaving the [14:33] the atmosphere instead, leaving the dinosaurs alive and it wasn't homo [14:35] dinosaurs alive and it wasn't homo [14:35] dinosaurs alive and it wasn't homo sapiens who eventually won the [14:36] sapiens who eventually won the [14:36] sapiens who eventually won the evolutionary race, but cats or goats or [14:38] evolutionary race, but cats or goats or [14:38] evolutionary race, but cats or goats or bats or stokes or wombats in tiny [14:41] bats or stokes or wombats in tiny [14:41] bats or stokes or wombats in tiny [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] lab coats. Or if our parents' [14:43] [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] lab coats. Or if our parents' [14:43] [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] lab coats. Or if our parents' parents' parents hadn't bangalanged on [14:45] parents' parents hadn't bangalanged on [14:45] parents' parents hadn't bangalanged on that particular day at that particular [14:47] that particular day at that particular [14:47] that particular day at that particular moment. Disgusting. Disgusting. The [14:50] moment. Disgusting. Disgusting. The [14:50] moment. Disgusting. Disgusting. The million other directions the past could [14:51] million other directions the past could [14:51] million other directions the past could have gone. the trillion other ways 8 [14:53] have gone. the trillion other ways 8 [14:53] have gone. the trillion other ways 8 billion of us could have been with [14:55] billion of us could have been with [14:55] billion of us could have been with history as an accident with the present [14:56] history as an accident with the present [14:56] history as an accident with the present as a dance of chance and the future as a [14:59] as a dance of chance and the future as a [14:59] as a dance of chance and the future as a game with no winning moves available. [15:02] game with no winning moves available. [15:02] game with no winning moves available. And for that matter, what about mental [15:05] And for that matter, what about mental [15:05] And for that matter, what about mental infinity? Can you feel the edge of your [15:08] infinity? Can you feel the edge of your [15:08] infinity? Can you feel the edge of your own mind? I can't. And mine's tiny. In [15:11] own mind? I can't. And mine's tiny. In [15:11] own mind? I can't. And mine's tiny. In our imaginations, we can go all the way [15:14] our imaginations, we can go all the way [15:14] our imaginations, we can go all the way down to the bottom of reality, then up [15:16] down to the bottom of reality, then up [15:16] down to the bottom of reality, then up to the top to the beginning and the end [15:18] to the top to the beginning and the end [15:18] to the top to the beginning and the end of everything if we're feeling playful. [15:20] of everything if we're feeling playful. [15:20] of everything if we're feeling playful. It doesn't seem like there's a boundary [15:22] It doesn't seem like there's a boundary [15:22] It doesn't seem like there's a boundary or a wall there. A bone cage about 14 cm [15:25] or a wall there. A bone cage about 14 cm [15:25] or a wall there. A bone cage about 14 cm wide is apparently enough to contain the [15:27] wide is apparently enough to contain the [15:28] wide is apparently enough to contain the idea of everything that ever was and [15:30] idea of everything that ever was and [15:30] idea of everything that ever was and could be. We're effectively infinitely [15:32] could be. We're effectively infinitely [15:32] could be. We're effectively infinitely big on the inside. And not to mention, [15:35] big on the inside. And not to mention, [15:35] big on the inside. And not to mention, we're also infinitely unknowable. Most [15:37] we're also infinitely unknowable. Most [15:37] we're also infinitely unknowable. Most of the time, our own motivations are a [15:39] of the time, our own motivations are a [15:39] of the time, our own motivations are a mystery even when we go looking for [15:41] mystery even when we go looking for [15:41] mystery even when we go looking for them. Yet, we never call off the search [15:43] them. Yet, we never call off the search [15:44] them. Yet, we never call off the search for ourselves. And then, what about [15:46] for ourselves. And then, what about [15:46] for ourselves. And then, what about everyone else? The thinker Emanuel [15:48] everyone else? The thinker Emanuel [15:48] everyone else? The thinker Emanuel Lavinas believed that we confront the [15:50] Lavinas believed that we confront the [15:50] Lavinas believed that we confront the infinites whenever we're presented with [15:52] infinites whenever we're presented with [15:52] infinites whenever we're presented with the faces of other people. Because as [15:54] the faces of other people. Because as [15:54] the faces of other people. Because as well as we will ever know anyone, we'll [15:56] well as we will ever know anyone, we'll [15:56] well as we will ever know anyone, we'll never really know them. We don't have [15:58] never really know them. We don't have [15:58] never really know them. We don't have direct access to their inner lives. Even [16:01] direct access to their inner lives. Even [16:01] direct access to their inner lives. Even the most boring whoever is a maelstrom [16:04] the most boring whoever is a maelstrom [16:04] the most boring whoever is a maelstrom of memories and confusions that only [16:06] of memories and confusions that only [16:06] of memories and confusions that only they can see. Internal maps of loss and [16:09] they can see. Internal maps of loss and [16:09] they can see. Internal maps of loss and longing that draw and redraw their own [16:11] longing that draw and redraw their own [16:11] longing that draw and redraw their own borders. the atlas of infinite self such [16:14] borders. the atlas of infinite self such [16:14] borders. the atlas of infinite self such that we can never fully know the [16:15] that we can never fully know the [16:15] that we can never fully know the territory from the outside. And all the [16:18] territory from the outside. And all the [16:18] territory from the outside. And all the while in stranger, we're all strangers [16:21] while in stranger, we're all strangers [16:21] while in stranger, we're all strangers to ourselves. [16:23] to ourselves. [16:23] to ourselves. And for that matter, what about spatial [16:26] And for that matter, what about spatial [16:26] And for that matter, what about spatial infinity? How long would it take to walk [16:29] infinity? How long would it take to walk [16:29] infinity? How long would it take to walk to the moon? Well, it's about 400,000 km [16:33] to the moon? Well, it's about 400,000 km [16:33] to the moon? Well, it's about 400,000 km away. If you were hoofing it at 30 km a [16:35] away. If you were hoofing it at 30 km a [16:36] away. If you were hoofing it at 30 km a day and didn't need to breathe, you [16:37] day and didn't need to breathe, you [16:37] day and didn't need to breathe, you could get there in oh, just 35 years. [16:41] could get there in oh, just 35 years. [16:41] could get there in oh, just 35 years. And what about our nearest neighbor [16:43] And what about our nearest neighbor [16:43] And what about our nearest neighbor planet, Venus? Well, at its closest, [16:45] planet, Venus? Well, at its closest, [16:45] planet, Venus? Well, at its closest, it's 38 million km from us. So maybe [16:48] it's 38 million km from us. So maybe [16:48] it's 38 million km from us. So maybe with some decent hiking boots, that'll [16:50] with some decent hiking boots, that'll [16:50] with some decent hiking boots, that'll take you around 3 and 12,000 years to [16:53] take you around 3 and 12,000 years to [16:53] take you around 3 and 12,000 years to walk. If you wanted to be there by now, [16:55] walk. If you wanted to be there by now, [16:55] walk. If you wanted to be there by now, you would have had to have left around [16:57] you would have had to have left around [16:57] you would have had to have left around the late Bronze Age. The solar system is [16:59] the late Bronze Age. The solar system is [16:59] the late Bronze Age. The solar system is quite big, but let's get a wiggle on. [17:02] quite big, but let's get a wiggle on. [17:02] quite big, but let's get a wiggle on. The fastest humans have ever traveled is [17:04] The fastest humans have ever traveled is [17:04] The fastest humans have ever traveled is about 40,000 km an hour. So, let's say [17:07] about 40,000 km an hour. So, let's say [17:07] about 40,000 km an hour. So, let's say with futury physics, we crack 400,000 km [17:10] with futury physics, we crack 400,000 km [17:10] with futury physics, we crack 400,000 km an hour. And maybe we want to wander [17:12] an hour. And maybe we want to wander [17:12] an hour. And maybe we want to wander over to our nearest star system, Alpha [17:14] over to our nearest star system, Alpha [17:14] over to our nearest star system, Alpha Centuri. No problem. Traveling 10 times [17:17] Centuri. No problem. Traveling 10 times [17:17] Centuri. No problem. Traveling 10 times faster than we've ever gone. That'll [17:19] faster than we've ever gone. That'll [17:19] faster than we've ever gone. That'll only take you around 12,000 years. You [17:22] only take you around 12,000 years. You [17:22] only take you around 12,000 years. You would have had to have left just after [17:24] would have had to have left just after [17:24] would have had to have left just after humans discovered agriculture. Or what [17:26] humans discovered agriculture. Or what [17:26] humans discovered agriculture. Or what if we wanted to reach the center of our [17:27] if we wanted to reach the center of our [17:28] if we wanted to reach the center of our galaxy? And [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] it, somehow we learned [17:30] galaxy? And [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] it, somehow we learned [17:30] galaxy? And [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] it, somehow we learned to travel at half the speed of light at [17:31] to travel at half the speed of light at [17:31] to travel at half the speed of light at about 150 million m/s. [17:34] about 150 million m/s. [17:34] about 150 million m/s. That would still take 52,000 years. [17:37] That would still take 52,000 years. [17:37] That would still take 52,000 years. Humans are back to being hunter [17:39] Humans are back to being hunter [17:39] Humans are back to being hunter gatherers. The galaxy is quite big and [17:41] gatherers. The galaxy is quite big and [17:42] gatherers. The galaxy is quite big and we're not even off our front doorstep [17:43] we're not even off our front doorstep [17:43] we're not even off our front doorstep yet. If we wanted to reach our nearest [17:45] yet. If we wanted to reach our nearest [17:45] yet. If we wanted to reach our nearest major neighbor galaxy, Andromeda, let's [17:48] major neighbor galaxy, Andromeda, let's [17:48] major neighbor galaxy, Andromeda, let's just break physics and travel at the [17:49] just break physics and travel at the [17:49] just break physics and travel at the speed of light itself. And ignoring [17:51] speed of light itself. And ignoring [17:51] speed of light itself. And ignoring cosmic expansion and relativity, going [17:54] cosmic expansion and relativity, going [17:54] cosmic expansion and relativity, going as fast as anything can go. That will [17:56] as fast as anything can go. That will [17:56] as fast as anything can go. That will take 2 1/2 million years. You would have [17:58] take 2 1/2 million years. You would have [17:58] take 2 1/2 million years. You would have had to have left Earth during the [17:59] had to have left Earth during the [17:59] had to have left Earth during the pleaene era. Woolly mammoths and [18:01] pleaene era. Woolly mammoths and [18:01] pleaene era. Woolly mammoths and mastadons. Then to M83, the southern [18:04] mastadons. Then to M83, the southern [18:04] mastadons. Then to M83, the southern pinwheel galaxy that'll take 15 million [18:06] pinwheel galaxy that'll take 15 million [18:06] pinwheel galaxy that'll take 15 million years. Apes are just getting the hang of [18:08] years. Apes are just getting the hang of [18:08] years. Apes are just getting the hang of walking upright. And we're still just [18:09] walking upright. And we're still just [18:09] walking upright. And we're still just pissing about in the neighborhood. [18:11] pissing about in the neighborhood. [18:11] pissing about in the neighborhood. Lania, our galactic supercluster of [18:13] Lania, our galactic supercluster of [18:13] Lania, our galactic supercluster of 100,000 galaxies. The universe is quite [18:16] 100,000 galaxies. The universe is quite [18:16] 100,000 galaxies. The universe is quite big. As we accelerate away now, every [18:18] big. As we accelerate away now, every [18:18] big. As we accelerate away now, every point of light becomes a galaxy [18:20] point of light becomes a galaxy [18:20] point of light becomes a galaxy containing billions of stars each. Next, [18:22] containing billions of stars each. Next, [18:22] containing billions of stars each. Next, let's poodle off to the Virgo cluster. [18:24] let's poodle off to the Virgo cluster. [18:24] let's poodle off to the Virgo cluster. 65 million years of travel. Antarctica [18:27] 65 million years of travel. Antarctica [18:27] 65 million years of travel. Antarctica hasn't started freezing yet. Then the [18:29] hasn't started freezing yet. Then the [18:29] hasn't started freezing yet. Then the galactic supercluster AEL 1689 2.3 [18:32] galactic supercluster AEL 1689 2.3 [18:32] galactic supercluster AEL 1689 2.3 billion years of travel back when [18:34] billion years of travel back when [18:34] billion years of travel back when Earth's sky was still orange. And to [18:36] Earth's sky was still orange. And to [18:36] Earth's sky was still orange. And to reach the most distant galaxy we've ever [18:37] reach the most distant galaxy we've ever [18:38] reach the most distant galaxy we've ever observed, Momz 14, 13 billion lighty [18:40] observed, Momz 14, 13 billion lighty [18:40] observed, Momz 14, 13 billion lighty years away, you would have had to obsess [18:42] years away, you would have had to obsess [18:42] years away, you would have had to obsess off sometime just after the birth of [18:44] off sometime just after the birth of [18:44] off sometime just after the birth of everything itself. Is the universe [18:46] everything itself. Is the universe [18:46] everything itself. Is the universe infinite? We don't know. But for little [18:49] infinite? We don't know. But for little [18:49] infinite? We don't know. But for little insects like us in our remote solar [18:51] insects like us in our remote solar [18:51] insects like us in our remote solar system, in our isolated galaxy, it may [18:54] system, in our isolated galaxy, it may [18:54] system, in our isolated galaxy, it may as well be. [18:57] as well be. [18:57] as well be. [Music] [18:59] [Music] [19:00] [Music] Sorry, I flew off the handle a bit [19:01] Sorry, I flew off the handle a bit [19:01] Sorry, I flew off the handle a bit there. [19:02] there. [19:02] there. &gt;&gt; Um, all right. [19:03] &gt;&gt; Um, all right. [19:04] &gt;&gt; Um, all right. &gt;&gt; We could just both agree you got lucky [19:05] &gt;&gt; We could just both agree you got lucky [19:05] &gt;&gt; We could just both agree you got lucky with that last game and probably [19:07] with that last game and probably [19:07] with that last game and probably cheated. Do you want a rematch? Maybe. [19:09] cheated. Do you want a rematch? Maybe. [19:10] cheated. Do you want a rematch? Maybe. &gt;&gt; Uh, yeah. Go on then. [Music] [19:16] [Music] &gt;&gt; How'd you get my number anyway? [19:19] &gt;&gt; How'd you get my number anyway? [19:19] &gt;&gt; How'd you get my number anyway? &gt;&gt; It's a good guess. We didn't see this [19:21] &gt;&gt; It's a good guess. We didn't see this [19:21] &gt;&gt; It's a good guess. We didn't see this coming. What a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] [19:23] coming. What a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] [19:23] coming. What a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] &gt;&gt; What? [19:23] &gt;&gt; What? [19:23] &gt;&gt; What? &gt;&gt; Uh, nothing. [19:25] &gt;&gt; Uh, nothing. [19:25] &gt;&gt; Uh, nothing. Oh. Oh. Where's your queen going? He [19:28] Oh. Oh. Where's your queen going? He [19:28] Oh. Oh. Where's your queen going? He can't even defend it.

# URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CtrhU7GOjOg

Video
America is Losing Control of the Petrodollar

Transcript
Kind: captions Language: en The 15th of March 2026 marked a historic [00:03] The 15th of March 2026 marked a historic day as oil aboard the Pakistani owned [00:06] day as oil aboard the Pakistani owned [00:06] day as oil aboard the Pakistani owned tanker Karachi passed safely through the [00:08] tanker Karachi passed safely through the [00:08] tanker Karachi passed safely through the straight of Hormuz. Denominated not in [00:10] straight of Hormuz. Denominated not in [00:10] straight of Hormuz. Denominated not in US dollars but in Chinese yuan. That [00:13] US dollars but in Chinese yuan. That [00:13] US dollars but in Chinese yuan. That same day, another vessel also went [00:15] same day, another vessel also went [00:15] same day, another vessel also went through carrying crude on a yuan aligned [00:17] through carrying crude on a yuan aligned [00:18] through carrying crude on a yuan aligned route. But it challenges an agreement [00:19] route. But it challenges an agreement [00:19] route. But it challenges an agreement which has underpinned the very [00:21] which has underpinned the very [00:21] which has underpinned the very foundation of America's economy, the [00:23] foundation of America's economy, the [00:23] foundation of America's economy, the petro dollar. In return for American [00:25] petro dollar. In return for American [00:25] petro dollar. In return for American protection, the Gulf States, these six [00:27] protection, the Gulf States, these six [00:27] protection, the Gulf States, these six countries here, would prop up American [00:29] countries here, would prop up American [00:29] countries here, would prop up American interest and sell their oil in dollars. [00:32] interest and sell their oil in dollars. [00:32] interest and sell their oil in dollars. But a deal that was supposed to secure [00:34] But a deal that was supposed to secure [00:34] But a deal that was supposed to secure American dominance instead handed a [00:36] American dominance instead handed a [00:36] American dominance instead handed a small group of countries extraordinary [00:38] small group of countries extraordinary [00:38] small group of countries extraordinary leverage over the most powerful country [00:40] leverage over the most powerful country [00:40] leverage over the most powerful country on Earth. Since the US and Israel wiped [00:42] on Earth. Since the US and Israel wiped [00:42] on Earth. Since the US and Israel wiped out Iran's supreme leader, a wave of [00:45] out Iran's supreme leader, a wave of [00:45] out Iran's supreme leader, a wave of attacks have spread across the region. [00:47] attacks have spread across the region. [00:47] attacks have spread across the region. The Gulf States didn't sign up for this. [00:49] The Gulf States didn't sign up for this. [00:49] The Gulf States didn't sign up for this. For 50 years, their deal with America [00:51] For 50 years, their deal with America [00:51] For 50 years, their deal with America has held. But right now, for the first [00:53] has held. But right now, for the first [00:53] has held. But right now, for the first time, the very countries propping up the [00:55] time, the very countries propping up the [00:55] time, the very countries propping up the American economy are watching the terms [00:57] American economy are watching the terms [00:57] American economy are watching the terms of that bargain fall apart. So what [00:59] of that bargain fall apart. So what [00:59] of that bargain fall apart. So what happens when they decide to stop playing [01:01] happens when they decide to stop playing [01:01] happens when they decide to stop playing ball? Maybe not an immediate collapse, [01:03] ball? Maybe not an immediate collapse, [01:04] ball? Maybe not an immediate collapse, but a slow bleed and one that could [01:06] but a slow bleed and one that could [01:06] but a slow bleed and one that could bring America's era of global dominance [01:08] bring America's era of global dominance [01:08] bring America's era of global dominance down with it. So how did a handful of [01:10] down with it. So how did a handful of [01:10] down with it. So how did a handful of desert states end up with this much [01:12] desert states end up with this much [01:12] desert states end up with this much leverage over the most powerful country [01:14] leverage over the most powerful country [01:14] leverage over the most powerful country on Earth? To answer that, you have to [01:16] on Earth? To answer that, you have to [01:16] on Earth? To answer that, you have to understand what they've built and how [01:18] understand what they've built and how [01:18] understand what they've built and how quickly it can fall apart. In the last [01:21] quickly it can fall apart. In the last [01:21] quickly it can fall apart. In the last century, the Gulf States have gone [01:22] century, the Gulf States have gone [01:22] century, the Gulf States have gone through an enormous transformation, [01:24] through an enormous transformation, [01:24] through an enormous transformation, largely thanks to one thing, oil. Oil [01:27] largely thanks to one thing, oil. Oil [01:27] largely thanks to one thing, oil. Oil was first discovered in Bahrain in 1932, [01:30] was first discovered in Bahrain in 1932, [01:30] was first discovered in Bahrain in 1932, and within decades, the entire region [01:33] and within decades, the entire region [01:33] and within decades, the entire region was producing it. And by the 1990s, that [01:35] was producing it. And by the 1990s, that [01:35] was producing it. And by the 1990s, that oil money had completely transformed [01:37] oil money had completely transformed [01:37] oil money had completely transformed what these places look like. Areas which [01:40] what these places look like. Areas which [01:40] what these places look like. Areas which had once been nomadic desert towns [01:41] had once been nomadic desert towns [01:42] had once been nomadic desert towns suddenly became sprawling metropolises. [01:44] suddenly became sprawling metropolises. [01:44] suddenly became sprawling metropolises. Dubai alone went from a modest trading [01:46] Dubai alone went from a modest trading [01:46] Dubai alone went from a modest trading port to a city of glass towers in barely [01:48] port to a city of glass towers in barely [01:48] port to a city of glass towers in barely a generation. But this wasn't just an [01:51] a generation. But this wasn't just an [01:51] a generation. But this wasn't just an economic boom. It reshaped how these [01:53] economic boom. It reshaped how these [01:53] economic boom. It reshaped how these countries were governed. Oil wealth was [01:55] countries were governed. Oil wealth was [01:55] countries were governed. Oil wealth was entirely statec controlled, which meant [01:57] entirely statec controlled, which meant [01:57] entirely statec controlled, which meant that everything, wages, subsidies, [01:59] that everything, wages, subsidies, [01:59] that everything, wages, subsidies, infrastructure, flowed from a [02:01] infrastructure, flowed from a [02:01] infrastructure, flowed from a centralized system financed by oil. And [02:04] centralized system financed by oil. And [02:04] centralized system financed by oil. And in exchange for political obedience, the [02:06] in exchange for political obedience, the [02:06] in exchange for political obedience, the government distributed enough of that [02:08] government distributed enough of that [02:08] government distributed enough of that wealth to keep people compliant. It's a [02:10] wealth to keep people compliant. It's a [02:10] wealth to keep people compliant. It's a social contract, just not a democratic [02:13] social contract, just not a democratic [02:13] social contract, just not a democratic one. And as long as it holds, it works. [02:15] one. And as long as it holds, it works. [02:15] one. And as long as it holds, it works. But the deal only holds if two things [02:17] But the deal only holds if two things [02:17] But the deal only holds if two things are true. The money keeps flowing and [02:20] are true. The money keeps flowing and [02:20] are true. The money keeps flowing and the region stays stable, which is why in [02:22] the region stays stable, which is why in [02:22] the region stays stable, which is why in recent decades, the Gulf States have [02:24] recent decades, the Gulf States have [02:24] recent decades, the Gulf States have made an enormous effort to diversify and [02:26] made an enormous effort to diversify and [02:26] made an enormous effort to diversify and rebrand. Saudi Arabia has poured [02:28] rebrand. Saudi Arabia has poured [02:28] rebrand. Saudi Arabia has poured hundreds of billions into tourism and [02:30] hundreds of billions into tourism and [02:30] hundreds of billions into tourism and entertainment. The UAE has marketed [02:32] entertainment. The UAE has marketed [02:32] entertainment. The UAE has marketed itself as a global hub for finance and [02:35] itself as a global hub for finance and [02:35] itself as a global hub for finance and innovation, and Qatar hosted the World [02:37] innovation, and Qatar hosted the World [02:37] innovation, and Qatar hosted the World Cup. These countries were no longer [02:39] Cup. These countries were no longer [02:39] Cup. These countries were no longer content to simply be oil exporters. They [02:41] content to simply be oil exporters. They [02:41] content to simply be oil exporters. They wanted to be players on the world stage. [02:43] wanted to be players on the world stage. [02:43] wanted to be players on the world stage. Today, tourism alone accounts for [02:45] Today, tourism alone accounts for [02:45] Today, tourism alone accounts for roughly 12% of Saudi's GDP and around [02:48] roughly 12% of Saudi's GDP and around [02:48] roughly 12% of Saudi's GDP and around 12% of the UAE's. Dubai's international [02:50] 12% of the UAE's. Dubai's international [02:50] 12% of the UAE's. Dubai's international airport is the busiest in the world for [02:52] airport is the busiest in the world for [02:52] airport is the busiest in the world for international passengers. And the [02:54] international passengers. And the [02:54] international passengers. And the region's sovereign wealth funds manage [02:56] region's sovereign wealth funds manage [02:56] region's sovereign wealth funds manage trillions of dollars in global, more [02:58] trillions of dollars in global, more [02:58] trillions of dollars in global, more importantly, American assets. But all of [03:01] importantly, American assets. But all of [03:01] importantly, American assets. But all of this, the skyscrapers, the airlines, the [03:03] this, the skyscrapers, the airlines, the [03:03] this, the skyscrapers, the airlines, the funds, is underpinned by one thing. The [03:06] funds, is underpinned by one thing. The [03:06] funds, is underpinned by one thing. The perception that this is a safe, [03:08] perception that this is a safe, [03:08] perception that this is a safe, predictable place to park your money and [03:10] predictable place to park your money and [03:10] predictable place to park your money and do business. And in just a matter of [03:12] do business. And in just a matter of [03:12] do business. And in just a matter of weeks, 30 years of building that [03:14] weeks, 30 years of building that [03:14] weeks, 30 years of building that perception came undone. &gt;&gt; After the US and Israel launched strikes [03:27] &gt;&gt; After the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran, the country quickly retaliated. [03:29] on Iran, the country quickly retaliated. [03:30] on Iran, the country quickly retaliated. Civilian areas and military bases alike [03:32] Civilian areas and military bases alike [03:32] Civilian areas and military bases alike across the six nations of the Gulf were [03:34] across the six nations of the Gulf were [03:34] across the six nations of the Gulf were hit by missile strikes. The biggest oil [03:36] hit by missile strikes. The biggest oil [03:36] hit by missile strikes. The biggest oil refinery in the world was shut down. the [03:38] refinery in the world was shut down. the [03:38] refinery in the world was shut down. the biggest gas refinery in the world was [03:40] biggest gas refinery in the world was [03:40] biggest gas refinery in the world was shut down. And this is already costing [03:42] shut down. And this is already costing [03:42] shut down. And this is already costing the region around 6.7 million barrels [03:45] the region around 6.7 million barrels [03:45] the region around 6.7 million barrels per day. And at current prices, it's [03:46] per day. And at current prices, it's [03:46] per day. And at current prices, it's roughly a billion dollars every single [03:48] roughly a billion dollars every single [03:48] roughly a billion dollars every single day. And remember, these countries [03:50] day. And remember, these countries [03:50] day. And remember, these countries aren't democracies. There's no election [03:52] aren't democracies. There's no election [03:52] aren't democracies. There's no election to absorb public anger. The social [03:54] to absorb public anger. The social [03:54] to absorb public anger. The social contract in every one of these countries [03:56] contract in every one of these countries [03:56] contract in every one of these countries depends on the government being able to [03:58] depends on the government being able to [03:58] depends on the government being able to keep the money flowing and the streets [04:00] keep the money flowing and the streets [04:00] keep the money flowing and the streets safe. And when that breaks down, the [04:02] safe. And when that breaks down, the [04:02] safe. And when that breaks down, the regime itself is at risk. But here's the [04:04] regime itself is at risk. But here's the [04:04] regime itself is at risk. But here's the thing. These aren't powerless countries. [04:06] thing. These aren't powerless countries. [04:06] thing. These aren't powerless countries. They spent 50 years quietly building [04:08] They spent 50 years quietly building [04:08] They spent 50 years quietly building themselves into the loadbearing wall of [04:11] themselves into the loadbearing wall of [04:11] themselves into the loadbearing wall of the global economy. And if they decide [04:13] the global economy. And if they decide [04:13] the global economy. And if they decide America is threatening their survival, [04:15] America is threatening their survival, [04:15] America is threatening their survival, they have the tools to make Washington [04:17] they have the tools to make Washington [04:17] they have the tools to make Washington feel it. Combined, they control nearly a [04:19] feel it. Combined, they control nearly a [04:19] feel it. Combined, they control nearly a third of global oil output every year, [04:21] third of global oil output every year, [04:21] third of global oil output every year, with by far the largest share coming [04:23] with by far the largest share coming [04:23] with by far the largest share coming from Saudi Arabia. Even more [04:25] from Saudi Arabia. Even more [04:25] from Saudi Arabia. Even more importantly, they also control well over [04:27] importantly, they also control well over [04:27] importantly, they also control well over half of the world's oral reserves. [04:29] half of the world's oral reserves. [04:29] half of the world's oral reserves. Essentially, the price of oil is [04:30] Essentially, the price of oil is [04:30] Essentially, the price of oil is extremely dependent on whatever these [04:32] extremely dependent on whatever these [04:32] extremely dependent on whatever these countries decide to do or not to do. If [04:35] countries decide to do or not to do. If [04:35] countries decide to do or not to do. If they were to say threaten to cut [04:37] they were to say threaten to cut [04:37] they were to say threaten to cut production entirely for a sustained [04:39] production entirely for a sustained [04:39] production entirely for a sustained period of time unless the US stops the [04:41] period of time unless the US stops the [04:41] period of time unless the US stops the invasion, they could send global energy [04:43] invasion, they could send global energy [04:43] invasion, they could send global energy prices soaring, which should be more [04:45] prices soaring, which should be more [04:45] prices soaring, which should be more than enough to pressure the United [04:46] than enough to pressure the United [04:46] than enough to pressure the United States into pulling back or at the very [04:48] States into pulling back or at the very [04:48] States into pulling back or at the very least discourage it from turning this [04:50] least discourage it from turning this [04:50] least discourage it from turning this into a long drawn out occupation. And [04:52] into a long drawn out occupation. And [04:52] into a long drawn out occupation. And time and time again, we have seen one of [04:54] time and time again, we have seen one of [04:54] time and time again, we have seen one of the main success metrics Trump uses is [04:56] the main success metrics Trump uses is [04:56] the main success metrics Trump uses is the markets. And Trump, in particular, [04:58] the markets. And Trump, in particular, [04:58] the markets. And Trump, in particular, ran a campaign promising to bring energy [05:01] ran a campaign promising to bring energy [05:01] ran a campaign promising to bring energy prices down. So having the opposite [05:02] prices down. So having the opposite [05:02] prices down. So having the opposite happen just before the midterm elections [05:04] happen just before the midterm elections [05:04] happen just before the midterm elections would be a political nightmare. If all [05:06] would be a political nightmare. If all [05:06] would be a political nightmare. If all of that sounds a bit extreme, it's worth [05:08] of that sounds a bit extreme, it's worth [05:08] of that sounds a bit extreme, it's worth remembering that a version of this has [05:10] remembering that a version of this has [05:10] remembering that a version of this has happened before. In 1973, in response to [05:13] happened before. In 1973, in response to [05:13] happened before. In 1973, in response to Western support for Israel during the [05:15] Western support for Israel during the [05:15] Western support for Israel during the Yongiper war, oil producing Middle [05:17] Yongiper war, oil producing Middle [05:17] Yongiper war, oil producing Middle Eastern countries led by Saudi Arabia [05:19] Eastern countries led by Saudi Arabia [05:19] Eastern countries led by Saudi Arabia abruptly shut off the flow of oil to the [05:21] abruptly shut off the flow of oil to the [05:21] abruptly shut off the flow of oil to the US, drying up the steady stream of [05:24] US, drying up the steady stream of [05:24] US, drying up the steady stream of Middle Eastern crude that Western [05:25] Middle Eastern crude that Western [05:25] Middle Eastern crude that Western economies had come to depend on and [05:27] economies had come to depend on and [05:27] economies had come to depend on and sending oil prices from $3 to $10 per [05:30] sending oil prices from $3 to $10 per [05:30] sending oil prices from $3 to $10 per barrel in just a couple of months. This [05:32] barrel in just a couple of months. This [05:32] barrel in just a couple of months. This kicked off nearly a decade of high [05:34] kicked off nearly a decade of high [05:34] kicked off nearly a decade of high inflation across the West, peaking at [05:36] inflation across the West, peaking at [05:36] inflation across the West, peaking at over 13% in the US. And before long, [05:39] over 13% in the US. And before long, [05:39] over 13% in the US. And before long, Washington began to soften its position, [05:41] Washington began to soften its position, [05:41] Washington began to soften its position, pushing for ceasefire negotiations and [05:43] pushing for ceasefire negotiations and [05:43] pushing for ceasefire negotiations and eventually getting Israel to bring the [05:45] eventually getting Israel to bring the [05:45] eventually getting Israel to bring the war to an end. But while that leverage [05:47] war to an end. But while that leverage [05:47] war to an end. But while that leverage might have worked for the Gulf States a [05:49] might have worked for the Gulf States a [05:49] might have worked for the Gulf States a few decades ago, the truth is that the [05:50] few decades ago, the truth is that the [05:50] few decades ago, the truth is that the world looks very different today. For [05:52] world looks very different today. For [05:52] world looks very different today. For starters, the US is way less reliant on [05:54] starters, the US is way less reliant on [05:54] starters, the US is way less reliant on Gulf oil than it once was. Before the [05:56] Gulf oil than it once was. Before the [05:56] Gulf oil than it once was. Before the oil crisis, roughly a third of US oil [05:59] oil crisis, roughly a third of US oil [05:59] oil crisis, roughly a third of US oil came from the Gulf. Today, that number [06:01] came from the Gulf. Today, that number [06:01] came from the Gulf. Today, that number is closer to 10%. In addition to this, [06:03] is closer to 10%. In addition to this, [06:03] is closer to 10%. In addition to this, the US now produces more oil than any [06:06] the US now produces more oil than any [06:06] the US now produces more oil than any other country on Earth and has actually [06:07] other country on Earth and has actually [06:07] other country on Earth and has actually become a net exporter to a number of [06:09] become a net exporter to a number of [06:09] become a net exporter to a number of countries. But whilst on the surface [06:11] countries. But whilst on the surface [06:11] countries. But whilst on the surface this may seem like the Gulf's influence [06:13] this may seem like the Gulf's influence [06:13] this may seem like the Gulf's influence has been diminishing, in reality since [06:15] has been diminishing, in reality since [06:15] has been diminishing, in reality since 1973, their power has only grown. In the [06:19] 1973, their power has only grown. In the [06:19] 1973, their power has only grown. In the last couple of weeks, America has [06:20] last couple of weeks, America has [06:20] last couple of weeks, America has unleashed its military strength. But the [06:22] unleashed its military strength. But the [06:22] unleashed its military strength. But the truth is that the superpower's biggest [06:24] truth is that the superpower's biggest [06:24] truth is that the superpower's biggest strength doesn't come from its weapons, [06:25] strength doesn't come from its weapons, [06:26] strength doesn't come from its weapons, but the dollar. As you may have heard [06:27] but the dollar. As you may have heard [06:27] but the dollar. As you may have heard before, the dollar is what's known as a [06:29] before, the dollar is what's known as a [06:29] before, the dollar is what's known as a reserve currency. Currencies used to be [06:31] reserve currency. Currencies used to be [06:31] reserve currency. Currencies used to be backed by physical commodities like gold [06:33] backed by physical commodities like gold [06:33] backed by physical commodities like gold or silver, but today they're essentially [06:35] or silver, but today they're essentially [06:35] or silver, but today they're essentially backed up by dollars, which make up [06:37] backed up by dollars, which make up [06:37] backed up by dollars, which make up around 60% of the world's foreign [06:39] around 60% of the world's foreign [06:39] around 60% of the world's foreign exchange reserves. If countries want to [06:41] exchange reserves. If countries want to [06:41] exchange reserves. If countries want to show that their currency has value, they [06:43] show that their currency has value, they [06:43] show that their currency has value, they need to hold dollars. Of course, that [06:45] need to hold dollars. Of course, that [06:45] need to hold dollars. Of course, that raises the question, if other countries [06:47] raises the question, if other countries [06:47] raises the question, if other countries use dollars to back up their own [06:49] use dollars to back up their own [06:49] use dollars to back up their own currency, then what's backing up the [06:51] currency, then what's backing up the [06:51] currency, then what's backing up the dollar? You'd expect it to be America's [06:53] dollar? You'd expect it to be America's [06:53] dollar? You'd expect it to be America's technology, its economy, or even its [06:55] technology, its economy, or even its [06:55] technology, its economy, or even its military strength. But in reality, it [06:57] military strength. But in reality, it [06:57] military strength. But in reality, it almost entirely comes down to a quiet [06:59] almost entirely comes down to a quiet [06:59] almost entirely comes down to a quiet agreement with the Gulf States from [07:00] agreement with the Gulf States from [07:00] agreement with the Gulf States from nearly 50 years back. One which created [07:03] nearly 50 years back. One which created [07:03] nearly 50 years back. One which created what's now known as the petro dollar. [07:05] what's now known as the petro dollar. [07:05] what's now known as the petro dollar. This is a pattern which comes in many [07:06] This is a pattern which comes in many [07:06] This is a pattern which comes in many forms, but pops up in the playbook of [07:09] forms, but pops up in the playbook of [07:09] forms, but pops up in the playbook of nearly every great power across history [07:11] nearly every great power across history [07:11] nearly every great power across history and has the power to make or break them. [07:13] and has the power to make or break them. [07:13] and has the power to make or break them. At the start of the 19th century, [07:15] At the start of the 19th century, [07:15] At the start of the 19th century, Britain was the world's undisputed [07:17] Britain was the world's undisputed [07:17] Britain was the world's undisputed superpower, controlling a quarter of the [07:19] superpower, controlling a quarter of the [07:19] superpower, controlling a quarter of the entire world's land and roughly 20% of [07:21] entire world's land and roughly 20% of [07:21] entire world's land and roughly 20% of the global economy. Because of that, [07:23] the global economy. Because of that, [07:23] the global economy. Because of that, global trade essentially revolved around [07:25] global trade essentially revolved around [07:25] global trade essentially revolved around the empire. Cotton from India, tea from [07:28] the empire. Cotton from India, tea from [07:28] the empire. Cotton from India, tea from China, rubber from Malaysia, all came [07:30] China, rubber from Malaysia, all came [07:30] China, rubber from Malaysia, all came into British ports. Now, when you're at [07:32] into British ports. Now, when you're at [07:32] into British ports. Now, when you're at the center of a system like that, [07:34] the center of a system like that, [07:34] the center of a system like that, something interesting happens to your [07:35] something interesting happens to your [07:36] something interesting happens to your currency. People all over the world need [07:38] currency. People all over the world need [07:38] currency. People all over the world need it. Not because they want pounds [07:39] it. Not because they want pounds [07:40] it. Not because they want pounds specifically, but because it's a common [07:41] specifically, but because it's a common [07:41] specifically, but because it's a common currency that people from two different [07:43] currency that people from two different [07:43] currency that people from two different countries can use. And at its core, this [07:46] countries can use. And at its core, this [07:46] countries can use. And at its core, this creates one enormous advantage. You can [07:48] creates one enormous advantage. You can [07:48] creates one enormous advantage. You can borrow enormous amounts of money without [07:51] borrow enormous amounts of money without [07:51] borrow enormous amounts of money without the costs that would normally come with [07:52] the costs that would normally come with [07:52] the costs that would normally come with it. Essentially, all this new money [07:54] it. Essentially, all this new money [07:54] it. Essentially, all this new money doesn't flood your domestic economy. [07:56] doesn't flood your domestic economy. [07:56] doesn't flood your domestic economy. Instead, it gets absorbed by [07:58] Instead, it gets absorbed by [07:58] Instead, it gets absorbed by international demand. It's probably the [08:00] international demand. It's probably the [08:00] international demand. It's probably the most powerful advantage an empire can [08:02] most powerful advantage an empire can [08:02] most powerful advantage an empire can have, and it's why their governments and [08:04] have, and it's why their governments and [08:04] have, and it's why their governments and citizens can live beyond their means for [08:06] citizens can live beyond their means for [08:06] citizens can live beyond their means for so long. Today, the same thing happens [08:08] so long. Today, the same thing happens [08:08] so long. Today, the same thing happens with the United States dollar. No matter [08:11] with the United States dollar. No matter [08:11] with the United States dollar. No matter how much money the country prints, it [08:13] how much money the country prints, it [08:13] how much money the country prints, it continues to hold its position as the [08:14] continues to hold its position as the [08:14] continues to hold its position as the world's reserve currency and can avoid [08:17] world's reserve currency and can avoid [08:17] world's reserve currency and can avoid major inflation, at least for the most [08:19] major inflation, at least for the most [08:19] major inflation, at least for the most part. However, that only works as long [08:21] part. However, that only works as long [08:21] part. However, that only works as long as the rest of the world keeps wanting [08:22] as the rest of the world keeps wanting [08:22] as the rest of the world keeps wanting to hold your currency. The moment that [08:24] to hold your currency. The moment that [08:24] to hold your currency. The moment that confidence slips, the whole system [08:26] confidence slips, the whole system [08:26] confidence slips, the whole system unravels. For Britain, that demand was [08:28] unravels. For Britain, that demand was [08:28] unravels. For Britain, that demand was driven by trade, spices, cotton, raw [08:31] driven by trade, spices, cotton, raw [08:31] driven by trade, spices, cotton, raw materials. When the empire shrank, so [08:33] materials. When the empire shrank, so [08:33] materials. When the empire shrank, so did the need for pounds, and the system [08:35] did the need for pounds, and the system [08:35] did the need for pounds, and the system with it collapsed. For the United [08:37] with it collapsed. For the United [08:37] with it collapsed. For the United States, that demand is driven by one [08:40] States, that demand is driven by one [08:40] States, that demand is driven by one thing, oil. And making sure that demand [08:42] thing, oil. And making sure that demand [08:42] thing, oil. And making sure that demand for dollars continues is exactly why the [08:44] for dollars continues is exactly why the [08:44] for dollars continues is exactly why the Gulf States have become so important to [08:46] Gulf States have become so important to [08:46] Gulf States have become so important to the US. Remember, just a few of these [08:49] the US. Remember, just a few of these [08:49] the US. Remember, just a few of these countries control almost 30% of the [08:51] countries control almost 30% of the [08:51] countries control almost 30% of the global supply of oil. And right now, [08:53] global supply of oil. And right now, [08:53] global supply of oil. And right now, that supply is under direct attack. The [08:56] that supply is under direct attack. The [08:56] that supply is under direct attack. The entirety of the Gulf region has [08:57] entirety of the Gulf region has [08:57] entirety of the Gulf region has effectively been transformed into an [08:59] effectively been transformed into an [08:59] effectively been transformed into an active war zone, which has forced the [09:01] active war zone, which has forced the [09:01] active war zone, which has forced the six states to massively cut back on [09:03] six states to massively cut back on [09:03] six states to massively cut back on production. Then the Straight of Hormuz, [09:05] production. Then the Straight of Hormuz, [09:05] production. Then the Straight of Hormuz, a passage which 1/5if of the world's oil [09:07] a passage which 1/5if of the world's oil [09:07] a passage which 1/5if of the world's oil passes through, was effectively shut [09:09] passes through, was effectively shut [09:09] passes through, was effectively shut down with 150 ships stranded, many of [09:12] down with 150 ships stranded, many of [09:12] down with 150 ships stranded, many of which would normally carry around 2 [09:13] which would normally carry around 2 [09:13] which would normally carry around 2 million barrels of oil a trip. These [09:15] million barrels of oil a trip. These [09:15] million barrels of oil a trip. These ships are effectively sitting ducks for [09:17] ships are effectively sitting ducks for [09:17] ships are effectively sitting ducks for Iranians to target, something they [09:19] Iranians to target, something they [09:19] Iranians to target, something they haven't hesitated to take advantage of. Okay, so it's worth keeping in mind that [09:30] Okay, so it's worth keeping in mind that oil is one of the very few commodities [09:32] oil is one of the very few commodities [09:32] oil is one of the very few commodities that literally everybody needs. It goes [09:34] that literally everybody needs. It goes [09:34] that literally everybody needs. It goes way beyond just powering cars. It's the [09:36] way beyond just powering cars. It's the [09:36] way beyond just powering cars. It's the fertilizer that grows food and the [09:38] fertilizer that grows food and the [09:38] fertilizer that grows food and the plastic that packages pretty much [09:40] plastic that packages pretty much [09:40] plastic that packages pretty much everything that we own. The Americans, [09:42] everything that we own. The Americans, [09:42] everything that we own. The Americans, of course, knew this and they also knew [09:43] of course, knew this and they also knew [09:43] of course, knew this and they also knew that if they could tie their currency to [09:45] that if they could tie their currency to [09:45] that if they could tie their currency to something that the entire world needed [09:47] something that the entire world needed [09:47] something that the entire world needed to buy anyways, it could effectively [09:49] to buy anyways, it could effectively [09:49] to buy anyways, it could effectively guarantee an endless demand for dollars. [09:52] guarantee an endless demand for dollars. [09:52] guarantee an endless demand for dollars. So, in the years following the 1973 oil [09:54] So, in the years following the 1973 oil [09:54] So, in the years following the 1973 oil crisis, the administration of Richard [09:56] crisis, the administration of Richard [09:56] crisis, the administration of Richard Nixon began quietly negotiating a deal [09:59] Nixon began quietly negotiating a deal [09:59] Nixon began quietly negotiating a deal with Saudi Arabia, at the time the [10:01] with Saudi Arabia, at the time the [10:01] with Saudi Arabia, at the time the world's most important oil producer. By [10:03] world's most important oil producer. By [10:03] world's most important oil producer. By 1975, the two countries had quietly [10:06] 1975, the two countries had quietly [10:06] 1975, the two countries had quietly struck a deal which would reshape the [10:07] struck a deal which would reshape the [10:08] struck a deal which would reshape the global economy for decades to come. At [10:10] global economy for decades to come. At [10:10] global economy for decades to come. At the heart of that deal was an agreement. [10:11] the heart of that deal was an agreement. [10:12] the heart of that deal was an agreement. The oil would be exclusively traded in [10:14] The oil would be exclusively traded in [10:14] The oil would be exclusively traded in US dollars. And that changed everything. [10:17] US dollars. And that changed everything. [10:17] US dollars. And that changed everything. Consider a fairly typical transaction in [10:19] Consider a fairly typical transaction in [10:19] Consider a fairly typical transaction in the global oil market. Let's say South [10:21] the global oil market. Let's say South [10:21] the global oil market. Let's say South Korea wants to buy crude oil from the [10:23] Korea wants to buy crude oil from the [10:23] Korea wants to buy crude oil from the United Arab Emirates. Rather than simply [10:25] United Arab Emirates. Rather than simply [10:25] United Arab Emirates. Rather than simply buying it directly, they would first [10:27] buying it directly, they would first [10:27] buying it directly, they would first need to sell their own currency to buy [10:29] need to sell their own currency to buy [10:29] need to sell their own currency to buy dollars, which only then they could use [10:31] dollars, which only then they could use [10:31] dollars, which only then they could use to buy oil from the UAE. The currency of [10:33] to buy oil from the UAE. The currency of [10:33] to buy oil from the UAE. The currency of a country that isn't even involved in [10:35] a country that isn't even involved in [10:35] a country that isn't even involved in the transaction, the dollar becomes the [10:37] the transaction, the dollar becomes the [10:37] the transaction, the dollar becomes the middleman for the entire deal. And when [10:39] middleman for the entire deal. And when [10:39] middleman for the entire deal. And when you start multiplying that across every [10:41] you start multiplying that across every [10:41] you start multiplying that across every country on Earth trying to buy oil from [10:43] country on Earth trying to buy oil from [10:43] country on Earth trying to buy oil from the Gulf, the scale of it is enormous. [10:45] the Gulf, the scale of it is enormous. [10:45] the Gulf, the scale of it is enormous. Today, the global oil industry is worth [10:47] Today, the global oil industry is worth [10:48] Today, the global oil industry is worth $3.7 trillion every year. About 3% of [10:51] $3.7 trillion every year. About 3% of [10:51] $3.7 trillion every year. About 3% of the world's GDP, and around 90% of that [10:54] the world's GDP, and around 90% of that [10:54] the world's GDP, and around 90% of that trade happens outside US markets, [10:56] trade happens outside US markets, [10:56] trade happens outside US markets, meaning trillions of dollars are [10:58] meaning trillions of dollars are [10:58] meaning trillions of dollars are constantly circulating around the world [11:00] constantly circulating around the world [11:00] constantly circulating around the world simply because countries need to buy [11:01] simply because countries need to buy [11:02] simply because countries need to buy energy, even if they have no particular [11:04] energy, even if they have no particular [11:04] energy, even if they have no particular interest in trading with the US [11:05] interest in trading with the US [11:05] interest in trading with the US directly. This has allowed the United [11:07] directly. This has allowed the United [11:07] directly. This has allowed the United States to import hundreds of billions of [11:09] States to import hundreds of billions of [11:09] States to import hundreds of billions of dollars of goods from around the world [11:11] dollars of goods from around the world [11:11] dollars of goods from around the world without ever really having to pay for [11:12] without ever really having to pay for [11:12] without ever really having to pay for it. Instead of sending back an [11:14] it. Instead of sending back an [11:14] it. Instead of sending back an equivalent amount of goods, the US sends [11:16] equivalent amount of goods, the US sends [11:16] equivalent amount of goods, the US sends fiscal assets like Treasury bonds, all [11:18] fiscal assets like Treasury bonds, all [11:18] fiscal assets like Treasury bonds, all made from a currency it can literally [11:20] made from a currency it can literally [11:20] made from a currency it can literally print for free. But because foreign [11:22] print for free. But because foreign [11:22] print for free. But because foreign countries need dollars to buy oil, [11:24] countries need dollars to buy oil, [11:24] countries need dollars to buy oil, they're just about happy to let the US [11:26] they're just about happy to let the US [11:26] they're just about happy to let the US get away with it. In fact, the United [11:27] get away with it. In fact, the United [11:27] get away with it. In fact, the United States has run a trade deficit every [11:29] States has run a trade deficit every [11:29] States has run a trade deficit every single year since 1976, [11:31] single year since 1976, [11:31] single year since 1976, meaning for 50 years straight, it has [11:33] meaning for 50 years straight, it has [11:33] meaning for 50 years straight, it has taken more from the world than it has [11:35] taken more from the world than it has [11:35] taken more from the world than it has given back. In 2025 alone, that deficit [11:38] given back. In 2025 alone, that deficit [11:38] given back. In 2025 alone, that deficit came to nearly $900 billion. Add all of [11:41] came to nearly $900 billion. Add all of [11:41] came to nearly $900 billion. Add all of these deficits up and the US has [11:43] these deficits up and the US has [11:43] these deficits up and the US has accumulated roughly $26 trillion in net [11:46] accumulated roughly $26 trillion in net [11:46] accumulated roughly $26 trillion in net foreign debt, goods and services, all [11:48] foreign debt, goods and services, all [11:48] foreign debt, goods and services, all essentially paid for with paper. For [11:50] essentially paid for with paper. For [11:50] essentially paid for with paper. For ordinary Americans, that has effectively [11:52] ordinary Americans, that has effectively [11:52] ordinary Americans, that has effectively acted as a massive hidden subsidy worth [11:55] acted as a massive hidden subsidy worth [11:55] acted as a massive hidden subsidy worth nearly $3,000 per person every single [11:57] nearly $3,000 per person every single [11:57] nearly $3,000 per person every single year. It's what has allowed the American [11:59] year. It's what has allowed the American [11:59] year. It's what has allowed the American middle class to maintain living [12:01] middle class to maintain living [12:01] middle class to maintain living standards that for most of the 20th [12:03] standards that for most of the 20th [12:03] standards that for most of the 20th century were the envy of the world, all [12:05] century were the envy of the world, all [12:05] century were the envy of the world, all whilst funding the largest military in [12:07] whilst funding the largest military in [12:07] whilst funding the largest military in history. However, the flip side is that [12:09] history. However, the flip side is that [12:09] history. However, the flip side is that it also gives the Gulf States an [12:11] it also gives the Gulf States an [12:11] it also gives the Gulf States an enormous amount of leverage. If those [12:13] enormous amount of leverage. If those [12:13] enormous amount of leverage. If those countries ever decided to price their [12:14] countries ever decided to price their [12:14] countries ever decided to price their oil in something else, say the Chinese [12:17] oil in something else, say the Chinese [12:17] oil in something else, say the Chinese yuan or gold, much of the global demand [12:20] yuan or gold, much of the global demand [12:20] yuan or gold, much of the global demand that underpins the dollar's dominance [12:22] that underpins the dollar's dominance [12:22] that underpins the dollar's dominance would vanish. And right now, for the [12:24] would vanish. And right now, for the [12:24] would vanish. And right now, for the first time in decades, that possibility [12:26] first time in decades, that possibility [12:26] first time in decades, that possibility feels less theoretical than ever. Many [12:28] feels less theoretical than ever. Many [12:28] feels less theoretical than ever. Many of Trump's supposed Gulf Arab allies are [12:31] of Trump's supposed Gulf Arab allies are [12:31] of Trump's supposed Gulf Arab allies are already reviewing their investments in [12:32] already reviewing their investments in [12:32] already reviewing their investments in the States, just months after pledging [12:34] the States, just months after pledging [12:34] the States, just months after pledging trillions of dollars worth in [12:36] trillions of dollars worth in [12:36] trillions of dollars worth in investment. and the anger is barely [12:38] investment. and the anger is barely [12:38] investment. and the anger is barely being concealed. One Dubai billionaire [12:40] being concealed. One Dubai billionaire [12:40] being concealed. One Dubai billionaire publicly asked why the Gulf should bear [12:42] publicly asked why the Gulf should bear [12:42] publicly asked why the Gulf should bear the consequences of an escalation nobody [12:45] the consequences of an escalation nobody [12:45] the consequences of an escalation nobody had asked for before quickly deleting [12:47] had asked for before quickly deleting [12:47] had asked for before quickly deleting the post. These are America's closest [12:49] the post. These are America's closest [12:49] the post. These are America's closest allies in the region. And right now they [12:52] allies in the region. And right now they [12:52] allies in the region. And right now they are furious. The only reason they had [12:54] are furious. The only reason they had [12:54] are furious. The only reason they had stuck to the petro dollar deal in the [12:55] stuck to the petro dollar deal in the [12:55] stuck to the petro dollar deal in the first place is because the US offered [12:57] first place is because the US offered [12:57] first place is because the US offered them something just as valuable in [12:59] them something just as valuable in [12:59] them something just as valuable in return, military protection. And if it [13:01] return, military protection. And if it [13:01] return, military protection. And if it wasn't already obvious, the US isn't [13:03] wasn't already obvious, the US isn't [13:03] wasn't already obvious, the US isn't holding up their side of the deal. For [13:05] holding up their side of the deal. For [13:05] holding up their side of the deal. For starters, none of the Gulf states wanted [13:07] starters, none of the Gulf states wanted [13:07] starters, none of the Gulf states wanted the war with Iran in the first place. [13:09] the war with Iran in the first place. [13:09] the war with Iran in the first place. Just days before it began, they were [13:11] Just days before it began, they were [13:11] Just days before it began, they were flying officials to Washington in a [13:13] flying officials to Washington in a [13:13] flying officials to Washington in a lastditched attempt to prevent it. [13:15] lastditched attempt to prevent it. [13:15] lastditched attempt to prevent it. Something that was clearly ignored. And [13:17] Something that was clearly ignored. And [13:17] Something that was clearly ignored. And since the war started, that treatment [13:19] since the war started, that treatment [13:19] since the war started, that treatment has only gotten worse. After the bombing [13:21] has only gotten worse. After the bombing [13:21] has only gotten worse. After the bombing began, reports emerged that Qatar's [13:23] began, reports emerged that Qatar's [13:23] began, reports emerged that Qatar's stockpile of Patriot interceptor [13:25] stockpile of Patriot interceptor [13:25] stockpile of Patriot interceptor missiles could last as little as 4 days. [13:27] missiles could last as little as 4 days. [13:27] missiles could last as little as 4 days. Yet, America refused to help restock [13:29] Yet, America refused to help restock [13:30] Yet, America refused to help restock them. And this also isn't the first time [13:32] them. And this also isn't the first time [13:32] them. And this also isn't the first time Washington has left its Gulf partners [13:34] Washington has left its Gulf partners [13:34] Washington has left its Gulf partners out to dry. In 2019, Iranian drones [13:37] out to dry. In 2019, Iranian drones [13:37] out to dry. In 2019, Iranian drones struck Saudi Arabia's oil facilities, [13:39] struck Saudi Arabia's oil facilities, [13:39] struck Saudi Arabia's oil facilities, temporarily knocking out about 5% of the [13:41] temporarily knocking out about 5% of the [13:41] temporarily knocking out about 5% of the world's oil supply. But despite Saudi [13:43] world's oil supply. But despite Saudi [13:44] world's oil supply. But despite Saudi requests, America didn't do anything. [13:46] requests, America didn't do anything. [13:46] requests, America didn't do anything. Now, if this were any other country, [13:48] Now, if this were any other country, [13:48] Now, if this were any other country, then the Gulf States would have likely [13:49] then the Gulf States would have likely [13:49] then the Gulf States would have likely abandoned their side of the deal long [13:51] abandoned their side of the deal long [13:51] abandoned their side of the deal long ago. But doing that with the United [13:53] ago. But doing that with the United [13:53] ago. But doing that with the United States is far more difficult. Right now, [13:56] States is far more difficult. Right now, [13:56] States is far more difficult. Right now, global oil markets are entirely built [13:58] global oil markets are entirely built [13:58] global oil markets are entirely built around dollars, and that's the way [14:00] around dollars, and that's the way [14:00] around dollars, and that's the way they've been for nearly half a century. [14:02] they've been for nearly half a century. [14:02] they've been for nearly half a century. So if a Gulf state tomorrow announced it [14:04] So if a Gulf state tomorrow announced it [14:04] So if a Gulf state tomorrow announced it was switching to a different currency, [14:05] was switching to a different currency, [14:05] was switching to a different currency, buyers around the world would face real [14:08] buyers around the world would face real [14:08] buyers around the world would face real costs adapting to that change, that [14:10] costs adapting to that change, that [14:10] costs adapting to that change, that would then force sellers to accept [14:12] would then force sellers to accept [14:12] would then force sellers to accept slightly lower prices to compensate [14:14] slightly lower prices to compensate [14:14] slightly lower prices to compensate buyers for that very inconvenience. So [14:16] buyers for that very inconvenience. So [14:16] buyers for that very inconvenience. So even if a lot of individual countries [14:18] even if a lot of individual countries [14:18] even if a lot of individual countries are fed up with the US, nobody wants to [14:20] are fed up with the US, nobody wants to [14:20] are fed up with the US, nobody wants to be the first one to make the move. That [14:22] be the first one to make the move. That [14:22] be the first one to make the move. That is as long as there isn't a very solid [14:25] is as long as there isn't a very solid [14:25] is as long as there isn't a very solid alternative. At the end of the day, the [14:27] alternative. At the end of the day, the [14:27] alternative. At the end of the day, the Gulf States don't just need a currency. [14:29] Gulf States don't just need a currency. [14:29] Gulf States don't just need a currency. They need a guarantor. somebody who can [14:31] They need a guarantor. somebody who can [14:31] They need a guarantor. somebody who can protect their assets in one of the most [14:33] protect their assets in one of the most [14:33] protect their assets in one of the most dangerous and unstable regions in the [14:35] dangerous and unstable regions in the [14:35] dangerous and unstable regions in the entire world. For half a century, it was [14:38] entire world. For half a century, it was [14:38] entire world. For half a century, it was America who was able to do that. But [14:40] America who was able to do that. But [14:40] America who was able to do that. But today, that isn't really the case. Over [14:42] today, that isn't really the case. Over [14:42] today, that isn't really the case. Over the last two decades, China's share of [14:44] the last two decades, China's share of [14:44] the last two decades, China's share of world trade has increased by around 7 [14:46] world trade has increased by around 7 [14:46] world trade has increased by around 7 times. And today, they make up about 14% [14:49] times. And today, they make up about 14% [14:49] times. And today, they make up about 14% of all the goods exported each year. Add [14:51] of all the goods exported each year. Add [14:51] of all the goods exported each year. Add to that the fact that their military and [14:53] to that the fact that their military and [14:53] to that the fact that their military and navy are now the largest in the world by [14:55] navy are now the largest in the world by [14:55] navy are now the largest in the world by personnel. It's not super surprising [14:57] personnel. It's not super surprising [14:57] personnel. It's not super surprising that the Gulf States have quietly [14:59] that the Gulf States have quietly [14:59] that the Gulf States have quietly started to pivot. China is already Saudi [15:01] started to pivot. China is already Saudi [15:01] started to pivot. China is already Saudi Arabia's largest trading partner and the [15:03] Arabia's largest trading partner and the [15:03] Arabia's largest trading partner and the two countries have signed a currency [15:05] two countries have signed a currency [15:05] two countries have signed a currency swap agreement that allows trade to be [15:07] swap agreement that allows trade to be [15:07] swap agreement that allows trade to be settled between them in Yuan and Rial, [15:09] settled between them in Yuan and Rial, [15:10] settled between them in Yuan and Rial, cutting the dollar out entirely. And [15:12] cutting the dollar out entirely. And [15:12] cutting the dollar out entirely. And unlike America, China doesn't lecture [15:14] unlike America, China doesn't lecture [15:14] unlike America, China doesn't lecture them about human rights, doesn't drag [15:16] them about human rights, doesn't drag [15:16] them about human rights, doesn't drag them into a war on their doorstep, and [15:18] them into a war on their doorstep, and [15:18] them into a war on their doorstep, and is willing to sell them advanced [15:19] is willing to sell them advanced [15:19] is willing to sell them advanced military technology without conditions [15:21] military technology without conditions [15:21] military technology without conditions attached. Again, none of this is going [15:23] attached. Again, none of this is going [15:23] attached. Again, none of this is going to break the system on its own, but each [15:25] to break the system on its own, but each [15:25] to break the system on its own, but each one chips away at the assumption that [15:27] one chips away at the assumption that [15:27] one chips away at the assumption that dollars are the only game in town. Going [15:29] dollars are the only game in town. Going [15:29] dollars are the only game in town. Going back to the original petro dollar deal [15:31] back to the original petro dollar deal [15:31] back to the original petro dollar deal that was struck in the 70s, the [15:32] that was struck in the 70s, the [15:32] that was struck in the 70s, the arrangement was just that Saudi Arabia [15:34] arrangement was just that Saudi Arabia [15:34] arrangement was just that Saudi Arabia would price its oil exclusively in [15:36] would price its oil exclusively in [15:36] would price its oil exclusively in dollars. And in return, the United [15:38] dollars. And in return, the United [15:38] dollars. And in return, the United States would provide security guarantees [15:40] States would provide security guarantees [15:40] States would provide security guarantees and military support. But given that, [15:42] and military support. But given that, [15:42] and military support. But given that, there was obviously a pretty big [15:43] there was obviously a pretty big [15:43] there was obviously a pretty big question as to what the Gulf States [15:45] question as to what the Gulf States [15:45] question as to what the Gulf States would do with all the dollars they'd [15:46] would do with all the dollars they'd [15:46] would do with all the dollars they'd acquired from selling oil. At the time, [15:48] acquired from selling oil. At the time, [15:48] acquired from selling oil. At the time, nobody really knew what this was, and it [15:51] nobody really knew what this was, and it [15:51] nobody really knew what this was, and it wasn't until 2016 that this was finally [15:53] wasn't until 2016 that this was finally [15:53] wasn't until 2016 that this was finally revealed. The secret? It was invested [15:55] revealed. The secret? It was invested [15:56] revealed. The secret? It was invested straight back into US financial assets, [15:58] straight back into US financial assets, [15:58] straight back into US financial assets, meaning money from around the world that [16:00] meaning money from around the world that [16:00] meaning money from around the world that was being used to buy oil ended up [16:02] was being used to buy oil ended up [16:02] was being used to buy oil ended up flowing straight back into the United [16:04] flowing straight back into the United [16:04] flowing straight back into the United States economy. And the scale of this [16:06] States economy. And the scale of this [16:06] States economy. And the scale of this recycling was enormous. By 1977, Saudi [16:10] recycling was enormous. By 1977, Saudi [16:10] recycling was enormous. By 1977, Saudi Arabia alone held 20% of all US debt [16:13] Arabia alone held 20% of all US debt [16:13] Arabia alone held 20% of all US debt owned by foreign governments. When the [16:15] owned by foreign governments. When the [16:15] owned by foreign governments. When the figures were finally disclosed in 2016, [16:17] figures were finally disclosed in 2016, [16:17] figures were finally disclosed in 2016, official Saudi holdings stood at around [16:19] official Saudi holdings stood at around [16:19] official Saudi holdings stood at around $117 billion. And for the US, that money [16:23] $117 billion. And for the US, that money [16:23] $117 billion. And for the US, that money is essential. When Washington spends [16:25] is essential. When Washington spends [16:25] is essential. When Washington spends more than it earns, which it has done [16:26] more than it earns, which it has done [16:26] more than it earns, which it has done for almost every year in decades, it [16:29] for almost every year in decades, it [16:29] for almost every year in decades, it issues treasury bonds, essentially IUS [16:31] issues treasury bonds, essentially IUS [16:31] issues treasury bonds, essentially IUS that investors buy today with a promise [16:33] that investors buy today with a promise [16:33] that investors buy today with a promise to be repaid later with interest. The [16:36] to be repaid later with interest. The [16:36] to be repaid later with interest. The more investors willing to buy that debt, [16:37] more investors willing to buy that debt, [16:38] more investors willing to buy that debt, the lower the interest rate Washington [16:39] the lower the interest rate Washington [16:39] the lower the interest rate Washington has to offer. And the fewer buyers, the [16:41] has to offer. And the fewer buyers, the [16:41] has to offer. And the fewer buyers, the higher that rate has to go to attract [16:43] higher that rate has to go to attract [16:43] higher that rate has to go to attract them. Effectively, the more people [16:45] them. Effectively, the more people [16:45] them. Effectively, the more people willing to lend to the US government, [16:47] willing to lend to the US government, [16:47] willing to lend to the US government, the cheaper it is for them to borrow [16:48] the cheaper it is for them to borrow [16:48] the cheaper it is for them to borrow money. And after literally decades of [16:50] money. And after literally decades of [16:50] money. And after literally decades of doing this, the US has ended up with an [16:53] doing this, the US has ended up with an [16:53] doing this, the US has ended up with an insane amount of debt now worth nearly [16:55] insane amount of debt now worth nearly [16:55] insane amount of debt now worth nearly $39 trillion. Servicing that debt [16:58] $39 trillion. Servicing that debt [16:58] $39 trillion. Servicing that debt already costs the government well over a [16:59] already costs the government well over a [16:59] already costs the government well over a trillion dollars a year in interest [17:01] trillion dollars a year in interest [17:01] trillion dollars a year in interest payments, making it the largest single [17:03] payments, making it the largest single [17:03] payments, making it the largest single line item in the entire federal budget. [17:05] line item in the entire federal budget. [17:05] line item in the entire federal budget. To put that into perspective, it works [17:07] To put that into perspective, it works [17:07] To put that into perspective, it works out to roughly $3,000 per American every [17:10] out to roughly $3,000 per American every [17:10] out to roughly $3,000 per American every single year. And if demand for US [17:12] single year. And if demand for US [17:12] single year. And if demand for US savings were to dry up, say because the [17:14] savings were to dry up, say because the [17:14] savings were to dry up, say because the US was to alienate one of its key [17:16] US was to alienate one of its key [17:16] US was to alienate one of its key buyers, that number climbs very quickly. [17:19] buyers, that number climbs very quickly. [17:19] buyers, that number climbs very quickly. Just a two percentage point rise in the [17:21] Just a two percentage point rise in the [17:21] Just a two percentage point rise in the interest rate would cost roughly $700 [17:23] interest rate would cost roughly $700 [17:23] interest rate would cost roughly $700 billion a year. That would force [17:25] billion a year. That would force [17:25] billion a year. That would force Washington into an impossible choice. [17:27] Washington into an impossible choice. [17:27] Washington into an impossible choice. Either cut enormous parts of the federal [17:29] Either cut enormous parts of the federal [17:29] Either cut enormous parts of the federal budget, raise taxes dramatically, or [17:31] budget, raise taxes dramatically, or [17:31] budget, raise taxes dramatically, or borrow even more money just to pay the [17:33] borrow even more money just to pay the [17:33] borrow even more money just to pay the interest on the money it has already [17:34] interest on the money it has already [17:34] interest on the money it has already borrowed. And this is really the root of [17:36] borrowed. And this is really the root of [17:36] borrowed. And this is really the root of why the Gulf States holds so much power [17:39] why the Gulf States holds so much power [17:39] why the Gulf States holds so much power over the US, at least in the short term. [17:41] over the US, at least in the short term. [17:41] over the US, at least in the short term. What happens next will probably not be [17:43] What happens next will probably not be [17:43] What happens next will probably not be dramatic or immediate. The global [17:45] dramatic or immediate. The global [17:45] dramatic or immediate. The global financial system is far too large and [17:47] financial system is far too large and [17:47] financial system is far too large and far too deeply embedded to suddenly [17:49] far too deeply embedded to suddenly [17:49] far too deeply embedded to suddenly collapse because of a single conflict. [17:51] collapse because of a single conflict. [17:51] collapse because of a single conflict. But systems like the one built around [17:52] But systems like the one built around [17:52] But systems like the one built around the petro dollar rarely end in a single [17:55] the petro dollar rarely end in a single [17:55] the petro dollar rarely end in a single moment. More often, they begin to erode [17:57] moment. More often, they begin to erode [17:57] moment. More often, they begin to erode slowly as countries gradually start [17:59] slowly as countries gradually start [17:59] slowly as countries gradually start hedging their bets. And in fact, that [18:01] hedging their bets. And in fact, that [18:01] hedging their bets. And in fact, that process has already started. Saudi [18:03] process has already started. Saudi [18:03] process has already started. Saudi Arabia's public investment fund has been [18:05] Arabia's public investment fund has been [18:05] Arabia's public investment fund has been shifting billions into Asian markets. [18:07] shifting billions into Asian markets. [18:07] shifting billions into Asian markets. Gulf sovereign wealth funds, which [18:09] Gulf sovereign wealth funds, which [18:09] Gulf sovereign wealth funds, which collectively manage over $3 trillion, [18:12] collectively manage over $3 trillion, [18:12] collectively manage over $3 trillion, have been quietly diversifying away from [18:14] have been quietly diversifying away from [18:14] have been quietly diversifying away from US assets, and Saudi Arabia is deepening [18:16] US assets, and Saudi Arabia is deepening [18:16] US assets, and Saudi Arabia is deepening its defense relationship with China. [18:18] its defense relationship with China. [18:18] its defense relationship with China. None of this makes headlines in the way [18:19] None of this makes headlines in the way [18:20] None of this makes headlines in the way an oil embargo would. But this is what [18:22] an oil embargo would. But this is what [18:22] an oil embargo would. But this is what the slow bleed actually looks like. Not [18:24] the slow bleed actually looks like. Not [18:24] the slow bleed actually looks like. Not a dramatic break, but a gradual [18:26] a dramatic break, but a gradual [18:26] a dramatic break, but a gradual rebalancing. In a strange way, Trump's [18:28] rebalancing. In a strange way, Trump's [18:28] rebalancing. In a strange way, Trump's promise to put America first might [18:30] promise to put America first might [18:30] promise to put America first might actually end up doing the opposite. The [18:32] actually end up doing the opposite. The [18:32] actually end up doing the opposite. The reality is that every country, no matter [18:34] reality is that every country, no matter [18:34] reality is that every country, no matter how strong, is in some way relying on [18:36] how strong, is in some way relying on [18:36] how strong, is in some way relying on its allies. In the short term, it might [18:39] its allies. In the short term, it might [18:39] its allies. In the short term, it might make sense to ignore them, relentlessly [18:40] make sense to ignore them, relentlessly [18:40] make sense to ignore them, relentlessly pursuing your own objectives. But [18:42] pursuing your own objectives. But [18:42] pursuing your own objectives. But isolating your allies in this way [18:44] isolating your allies in this way [18:44] isolating your allies in this way inevitably comes with a cost. And in the [18:46] inevitably comes with a cost. And in the [18:46] inevitably comes with a cost. And in the case of the US, that might mean the end [18:49] case of the US, that might mean the end [18:49] case of the US, that might mean the end of the dollar system as we know it. Now, [18:51] of the dollar system as we know it. Now, [18:51] of the dollar system as we know it. Now, with Trump's announcement that the [18:53] with Trump's announcement that the [18:53] with Trump's announcement that the military budget of the United States [18:54] military budget of the United States [18:54] military budget of the United States will actually be 1.5 trillion next year, [18:57] will actually be 1.5 trillion next year, [18:58] will actually be 1.5 trillion next year, the largest in its history, and with [19:00] the largest in its history, and with [19:00] the largest in its history, and with President Trump announcing electricity [19:02] President Trump announcing electricity [19:02] President Trump announcing electricity demand needs to triple at the very least [19:04] demand needs to triple at the very least [19:04] demand needs to triple at the very least by 2030 to meet AI buildup, billionaire [19:07] by 2030 to meet AI buildup, billionaire [19:07] by 2030 to meet AI buildup, billionaire Robert Freedelland has said that the [19:08] Robert Freedelland has said that the [19:08] Robert Freedelland has said that the world is sleeping into a copper crisis [19:10] world is sleeping into a copper crisis [19:10] world is sleeping into a copper crisis and that if somebody's pointing a gun at [19:12] and that if somebody's pointing a gun at [19:12] and that if somebody's pointing a gun at you, you need that copper to shoot back. [19:14] you, you need that copper to shoot back. [19:14] you, you need that copper to shoot back. Copper demand is beyond belief. Supply [19:17] Copper demand is beyond belief. Supply [19:17] Copper demand is beyond belief. Supply is vanishing and a copper shortage is [19:19] is vanishing and a copper shortage is [19:19] is vanishing and a copper shortage is just a matter of time now. President [19:21] just a matter of time now. President [19:21] just a matter of time now. President Trump has taken massive action to bring [19:23] Trump has taken massive action to bring [19:23] Trump has taken massive action to bring back copper production to US soil, [19:25] back copper production to US soil, [19:25] back copper production to US soil, including an executive order and [19:27] including an executive order and [19:27] including an executive order and enacting a 50% tariff on imports. In [19:30] enacting a 50% tariff on imports. In [19:30] enacting a 50% tariff on imports. In fact, Stanley Draeniller, who many [19:32] fact, Stanley Draeniller, who many [19:32] fact, Stanley Draeniller, who many consider to be one of the all-time [19:34] consider to be one of the all-time [19:34] consider to be one of the all-time greatest macro investors, a self-made [19:36] greatest macro investors, a self-made [19:36] greatest macro investors, a self-made billionaire with a track record of never [19:38] billionaire with a track record of never [19:38] billionaire with a track record of never having a losing year, is very bullish on [19:40] having a losing year, is very bullish on [19:40] having a losing year, is very bullish on copper. Look at the global production [19:43] copper. Look at the global production [19:43] copper. Look at the global production outlook. Right-win demand is projected [19:45] outlook. Right-win demand is projected [19:45] outlook. Right-win demand is projected to sore by 50% by 2040. The United [19:48] to sore by 50% by 2040. The United [19:48] to sore by 50% by 2040. The United States of America and China are battling [19:50] States of America and China are battling [19:50] States of America and China are battling over mineral supply chains and [19:51] over mineral supply chains and [19:51] over mineral supply chains and technological supremacy because [19:53] technological supremacy because [19:53] technological supremacy because globalization stepped out of [19:55] globalization stepped out of [19:55] globalization stepped out of equilibrium. And you can see just how [19:57] equilibrium. And you can see just how [19:57] equilibrium. And you can see just how when looking at how the strategy of both [19:59] when looking at how the strategy of both [19:59] when looking at how the strategy of both superpowers is shaping up. Today, I want [20:02] superpowers is shaping up. Today, I want [20:02] superpowers is shaping up. Today, I want to showcase a company that is actually [20:04] to showcase a company that is actually [20:04] to showcase a company that is actually trading near its all-time lows right [20:06] trading near its all-time lows right [20:06] trading near its all-time lows right now, down nearly 62% in the past 45 [20:09] now, down nearly 62% in the past 45 [20:09] now, down nearly 62% in the past 45 days. the owner of the Majuba Hill [20:11] days. the owner of the Majuba Hill [20:11] days. the owner of the Majuba Hill Copper Project and past producing mine [20:13] Copper Project and past producing mine [20:13] Copper Project and past producing mine in the state of Nevada. The sponsor of [20:15] in the state of Nevada. The sponsor of [20:15] in the state of Nevada. The sponsor of today's video, Giant Mining Corp., [20:18] today's video, Giant Mining Corp., [20:18] today's video, Giant Mining Corp., ticker symbol BFGF, [20:21] ticker symbol BFGF, [20:21] ticker symbol BFGF, available on Interactive Brokers and [20:23] available on Interactive Brokers and [20:23] available on Interactive Brokers and Charles Schwab. Giant Mining has rarely, [20:25] Charles Schwab. Giant Mining has rarely, [20:25] Charles Schwab. Giant Mining has rarely, if ever, traded this cheap. This is one [20:27] if ever, traded this cheap. This is one [20:27] if ever, traded this cheap. This is one of the lowest market caps in its [20:29] of the lowest market caps in its [20:29] of the lowest market caps in its history. It began 2026 with a breakout [20:31] history. It began 2026 with a breakout [20:31] history. It began 2026 with a breakout over record setting copper prices, and [20:34] over record setting copper prices, and [20:34] over record setting copper prices, and today it's sitting at around 11 US [20:36] today it's sitting at around 11 US [20:36] today it's sitting at around 11 US cents. Since President Trump's [20:38] cents. Since President Trump's [20:38] cents. Since President Trump's inauguration, his administration has [20:40] inauguration, his administration has [20:40] inauguration, his administration has aggressively pursued policies to secure [20:42] aggressively pursued policies to secure [20:42] aggressively pursued policies to secure US mineral independence with copper [20:44] US mineral independence with copper [20:44] US mineral independence with copper emerging as a flash point. What we've [20:46] emerging as a flash point. What we've [20:46] emerging as a flash point. What we've been seeing is the very first chance to [20:48] been seeing is the very first chance to [20:48] been seeing is the very first chance to be part of the rebirth of the American [20:50] be part of the rebirth of the American [20:50] be part of the rebirth of the American copper mining business. Giant Mining [20:53] copper mining business. Giant Mining [20:53] copper mining business. Giant Mining ticker BFGFF [20:54] ticker BFGFF [20:54] ticker BFGFF owns a pass producing copper mine in [20:56] owns a pass producing copper mine in [20:56] owns a pass producing copper mine in Nevada, one of America's best and most [20:59] Nevada, one of America's best and most [20:59] Nevada, one of America's best and most cherished mining jurisdictions. Howard [21:01] cherished mining jurisdictions. Howard [21:01] cherished mining jurisdictions. Howard Lutchnik said, "American industries [21:03] Lutchnik said, "American industries [21:03] Lutchnik said, "American industries depend on copper and it should be made [21:05] depend on copper and it should be made [21:05] depend on copper and it should be made in America. No exemptions and no [21:08] in America. No exemptions and no [21:08] in America. No exemptions and no exceptions." And Trump even said that [21:10] exceptions." And Trump even said that [21:10] exceptions." And Trump even said that copper should be made in America and [21:12] copper should be made in America and [21:12] copper should be made in America and it's time for copper to come home. [21:14] it's time for copper to come home. [21:14] it's time for copper to come home. Historic underground mines at the Majuba [21:16] Historic underground mines at the Majuba [21:16] Historic underground mines at the Majuba Hill project produced copper, tin, and [21:19] Hill project produced copper, tin, and [21:19] Hill project produced copper, tin, and silver from the early 1900s to the [21:21] silver from the early 1900s to the [21:21] silver from the early 1900s to the 1950s, including 2.8 8 million of [21:25] 1950s, including 2.8 8 million of [21:25] 1950s, including 2.8 8 million of copper, 184,000 oz of silver, and 5,800 [21:29] copper, 184,000 oz of silver, and 5,800 [21:29] copper, 184,000 oz of silver, and 5,800 oz of gold. All of these factors and the [21:32] oz of gold. All of these factors and the [21:32] oz of gold. All of these factors and the following ones below are the ones that [21:34] following ones below are the ones that [21:34] following ones below are the ones that led to a significant bullish opinion [21:36] led to a significant bullish opinion [21:36] led to a significant bullish opinion about giant mining. The infrastructure [21:38] about giant mining. The infrastructure [21:38] about giant mining. The infrastructure is ready. Access roads, power supply, [21:40] is ready. Access roads, power supply, [21:40] is ready. Access roads, power supply, transportation, water supply, or [21:42] transportation, water supply, or [21:42] transportation, water supply, or stockpiles, and established road access, [21:45] stockpiles, and established road access, [21:45] stockpiles, and established road access, power nearby, and space for potential [21:48] power nearby, and space for potential [21:48] power nearby, and space for potential processing infrastructure as the project [21:50] processing infrastructure as the project [21:50] processing infrastructure as the project advances. Do your own homework on giant [21:53] advances. Do your own homework on giant [21:53] advances. Do your own homework on giant mining.