# URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/hinduism/comments/180eb1m/a_lifelong_atheist_turning_to_hindu_spirituality/

Post
A lifelong atheist turning to Hindu spirituality because of science The following is a personal anecdote and I am only sharing this because I see a lot of blanket statements on Reddit and on the internet in general around how religion is anti-science. I used to think the same but now my perspective has widened. Here’s how and why- I became an atheist a long time ago because I realized all the religious figures around me were basically making word salads whenever I asked them any questions and that they didn’t really have any answers. OTOH science appealed to me because it is logical, evidence based and is falsifiable. The interest in physics and mathematics grew stronger through the years and even though I studied engineering and took up a career in software engineering, I kept up with the latest research specifically in the area of high energy particle physics because I believe that’s where we are trying to answer the most fundamental question of ‘what in the hell is going on?’ When the Higgs particle was finally discovered at LHC, I was ecstatic just like most others who were paying attention to what was going on in particle physics. Soon after though, some physicists working at the LHC (most notably, Nima Arkani Hamed) published papers where they expressed doubts that space and time may not be fundamental and there may be a deeper structure underneath that in turn gives rise to space time as emergent phenomenon. In the last 10 years, they’ve done a ton of follow up work that has proven beyond doubt that they aren’t just hallucinating. They’ve in fact discovered some candidate structures (e.g. the amplituhedron) that give rise to fundamental particles and their properties along with causation without assuming the existence of space or time in the beginning. Obviously more research needs to be done to discover the exact nature of these geometric structures and their properties. While all of this was going on, I came across Prof. Don Hoffman who was working on a theory of consciousness. His research posits that in fact if you take consciousness (conscious agents to be more precise) to be the fundamental unit of existence, you can mathematically show that interactions among a network of conscious agents can give rise to structures that become fundamental particles along with their properties such as spin and mass along with causation. If you’d like to dig deeper in the science, you can look up the work of both [Nima Arkani Hamed](https://youtu.be/GL77oOnrPzY?si=T-62RyYRurJWz9c8) who leads a team of high energy particle physicists at the CERN supercollider and that of [Prof. Donald Hoffman](https://youtu.be/UrQRVitzPkY?si=a1bPPareJEyqchXN) who is a Professor Emeritus of Cognitive Sciences at the University of California, Irvine. So how did this lead me to religion? Well, in one of his interviews, Prof Hoffman spoke about how some eastern philosophical traditions talk about consciousness being the fundamental unit of existence and he gave the example of Advaita Vedanta. That’s when I started digging deep into this philosophical tradition and I found the principles to be quite consistent with the scientific method. To all those scientifically inclined, I’d encourage you to keep an open mind and not draw blanket conclusions just because that view is popular. I still struggle with all the pseudoscience that various religious gurus and institutions espouse but there are parts of religion that are logical, and actually make sense scientifically. https://www.reddit.com/r/hinduism/comments/180eb1m/a_lifelong_atheist_turning_to_hindu_spirituality/

Comments
superr_husky: I just stumbled here. And dude, i gotta yell you. This is exactly my story. And i am Indian by birth. And i feel blessed to have found the path to the truth. _ashok_kumar: What is frustrating to me is that i was born and raised in India and i had no idea about Vedanta until i was well into my thirties. Worse, a foreigner had to introduce it. I wish as a society and a civilization, we took more pride in our heritage and paid attention to the knowledge that’s there in the Upanishads. bipin44: Well do not turn to religion or philosophies just because you think it's consistent with science. Philosophies like Advaita vedanta are for completely different purpose, they don't claim any science there theories and ideas serve a different purpose even if science is against them it's still relevant because science serves a totally different purpose. For example no one likes to jump from a building not because science has proved that there is something like gravity and it pulls you down but simply because you don't want to die. Same with these philosophies they are for personal growth their theories could be proved wrong maybe 100 years later no one knows so follow them if you find it help... Kartik_800: Born a Hindu, got interested in it recently in early 20s. All the Adhyatamic concepts regarding Atma, Brahm, chetna, Maya, Sansar etc. got me interested in it. Accepted it by heart. Not ever leaving it now. Dumuzzi: I think that's pretty sound thinking. Quantum Physics was heavily inspired by the teachings of Advaita Vedanta, especially after Max Müller translated the Upanishads and other texts from the tradition into German. Heisenberg and Von Weizsacker are generally considered the fathers of quantum physics, they both had extensive knowledge of Advaita Vedanta and acknowledged the influence of this philosophy on their thinking. Von Weizsacker in particular impressed Hindu religious scholars with his deep knowledge and understanding of Advaitin concepts on a trip to visit his friend, Gopi Krishna in Kashmir. He wrote a long essay on the unitive nature of the universe and the fundamental nature of con... UniversalHuman000: When someone looks for only science in religion. They won't find any religion that postulates solely scientific truths. But when you look at the combination of meaning, purpose, science, and spirituality. Hinduism takes the cake 🍰 [deleted]: Same happened to me. Lonely_Cosmonaut: What could you offer me (a western atheist lurker) as meaningful stepping stones or insights into this subject. I’m open minded to unidentified (by modern science) layers of existence but I want to know more about what persuaded you to follow the Hindu path as opposed to any other hermetic tradition or even Gnostic ones. painintheeyes: Good brother! Same here. Took the long route but finding new things everytime which science and words cannot even explain at this time. rohur_x: Happy for you brother. Can you recall in which video Dr. Hoffan talks about Advait Vedanta? marmulak: I think where you're mistaken is the idea that eastern traditions somehow dealt with this better than western ones. That's definitely not the case. Hinduism isn't based on science, and the Sanskrit texts are just as much word soup as anything. Western philosophy also recognized consciousness as fundamental, for example a lot of Abrahamic thought like Christian and Islamic theology is Platonic and believes in a "universal consciousness". I've studied Vedanta before, and I'm not sure if "consciousness" is actually the core concept, but rather "being" and the soul. serious-aspirant: In my case it was this one video that fascinated me. I will recommend you to watch it too https://youtu.be/EvOEU3R9gng?feature=shared [deleted]: What are the specifics, which made you think it's scientific?. Avoid bringing big jargons and complex topics, they can easily be confused, confirmed as par one's bias, in lack of knowledge most often. Just check if Hinduism followes the basic scientific rule. That will clear stuff.

Recovered Comments
[u/Top-Tomatillo210, score 1, recovered from pullpush.io] Same happened to me. [u/Lonely_Cosmonaut, score 1, recovered from pullpush.io] What could you offer me (a western atheist lurker) as meaningful stepping stones or insights into this subject. I’m open minded to unidentified (by modern science) layers of existence but I want to know more about what persuaded you to follow the Hindu path as opposed to any other hermetic tradition or even Gnostic ones. [u/feelinghothothotter, score 1, recovered from pullpush.io] I'm sorry. Respectfully, this is a crock of bullshit. Vedanta Philosophy cannot be credited with QM. Just because someone believes or has read something doesn't mean whatever they do is a product of that. A simple example... Virat Kohli is a Hindu. He's a great batsman. Can we credit Hinduism for his Batting techniques? We can credit the person he is to Hinduism. [u/feelinghothothotter, score 1, recovered from pullpush.io] I did. And you're right, he said Quantum Mechanics was written in the Vedas. [u/wisewaternexus, score 1, recovered from pullpush.io] &gt;What is frustrating to me is that i was born and raised in India and i had no idea about Vedanta until i was well into my thirties. Worse, a foreigner had to introduce it. How can you blame yourself for this? It's the government's fault—they abandoned our own education system in favor of a Western one. It's not your fault. India is still controlled in subtle ways by the Western world, though most people don’t realize it. [u/superr_husky, score 1, recovered from pullpush.io] I just stumbled here. And dude, i gotta yell you. This is exactly my story. And i am Indian by birth. And i feel blessed to have found the path to the truth. [u/UniversalHuman000, score 1, recovered from pullpush.io] When someone looks for only science in religion. They won't find any religion that postulates solely scientific truths. But when you look at the combination of meaning, purpose, science, and spirituality. Hinduism takes the cake 🍰 [u/serious-aspirant, score 1, recovered from pullpush.io] In my case it was this one video that fascinated me. I will recommend you to watch it too https://youtu.be/EvOEU3R9gng?feature=shared [u/serious-aspirant, score 1, recovered from pullpush.io] Upanishads are vedantas right? They are indeed vedic [u/Dumuzzi, score 1, recovered from pullpush.io] I think that's pretty sound thinking. Quantum Physics was heavily inspired by the teachings of Advaita Vedanta, especially after Max Müller translated the Upanishads and other texts from the tradition into German. Heisenberg and Von Weizsacker are generally considered the fathers of quantum physics, they both had extensive knowledge of Advaita Vedanta and acknowledged the influence of this philosophy on their thinking. Von Weizsacker in particular impressed Hindu religious scholars with his deep knowledge and understanding of Advaitin concepts on a trip to visit his friend, Gopi Krishna in Kashmir. He wrote a long essay on the unitive nature of the universe and the fundamental nature of consciousness to it, as a foreword to Gopi Krishna's first book, Kundalini: The Evolutionary Energy in Man. You might find this essay online, it's worth a read. It should also be noted that modern psychology was also heavily influenced by Advaitin and other Hindu concepts. Jung travelled to India and studied many yogis and sadhus. He also lectured on Kundalini, which was published in book form, you can read that online. His idea of the collective subconscious was largely based on advaitin ideas, whereas Freud's interpretation of the libido had its roots in Hindu teachings on Kundalini. Note as well, that simulation theory is gaining ground among ever more scientists, that is another major philosophical concept from Hinduism, which posits that the world is fundamentally a holographic construct or illusion (maya). [u/_ashok_kumar, score 1, recovered from pullpush.io] What is frustrating to me is that i was born and raised in India and i had no idea about Vedanta until i was well into my thirties. Worse, a foreigner had to introduce it. I wish as a society and a civilization, we took more pride in our heritage and paid attention to the knowledge that’s there in the Upanishads. [u/_ashok_kumar, score 1, recovered from pullpush.io] Scaling this means figuring out a way to get the message across to the masses. [u/_ashok_kumar, score 1, recovered from pullpush.io] I am glad we found this path. But it is insane that people born in India even in the Hindu faith have to take this long route to find our own roots. Anyway, very happy for you. [u/_ashok_kumar, score 1, recovered from pullpush.io] I am glad we found this path. But it is insane that people born in India even in the Hindu faith have to take this long route to find our own roots. Anyway, very happy for you. [u/_ashok_kumar, score 1, recovered from pullpush.io] Hard to disagree with that. I am trying to at least get kids in my family familiarized with this. With the learnings from this experience, hopefully will be able to figure out how to scale this. [u/_ashok_kumar, score 1, recovered from pullpush.io] Thank you. [u/_ashok_kumar, score 1, recovered from pullpush.io] I am just saying that science led me to spirituality. I have found spiritual experiences to be fulfilling in themselves. I no longer ‘need’ science to stay with spirituality. Both will hold importance for me independently. [u/Kartik_800, score 1, recovered from pullpush.io] Born a Hindu, got interested in it recently in early 20s. All the Adhyatamic concepts regarding Atma, Brahm, chetna, Maya, Sansar etc. got me interested in it. Accepted it by heart. Not ever leaving it now. [u/_ashok_kumar, score 1, recovered from pullpush.io] This requires a prolonged conversation and I don’t think this format of comments and replies is good enough for it. Do you mind sending me a DM? Can get on a call some day and discuss if you’re interested. [u/_ashok_kumar, score 1, recovered from pullpush.io] In a nutshell though, I was looking for something that didn’t require ‘faith’ to begin with, allowed me to remain skeptical and keep asking questions so long as I wasn’t satisfied with the logic of it all. Only Advaita fit this bill. [u/jivanyatra, score 1, recovered from pullpush.io] This is an important understanding to have regardless of path or tradition IMHO. [u/Dumuzzi, score 1, recovered from pullpush.io] I'm not a Hindu and neither was Von Weizsacker or Jung. You can read the teachings of a particular philosophy, in this case AV and agree or disagree with it, let it inspire you to have new ideas and new thinking, without being part of that particular religion. This has nothing to do with Hinduism as a religion or belief or lack of in deities. Science is a branch of philosophy, so it must be placed in its proper context. There are many ways for us to understand, study and classify the world, science is one method, but it is not philosophy, the latter is responsible for the conceptual framework by which we understand the world around us and helps us make sense of it. I did not say that AV can be credited with QM, only that the philosophical ideas contained therein, especially non-duality and the unitive principle was an inspiration for developing some of the scientific ideas around QM, especially in von Weizsacker's case, which we know from his own writings and lectures. Philosophy is not science, but it is needed to help us think clearly and develop ideas that may one day serve as the basis of scientific theories. It does not replace empirical study, which is needed to confirm a theory. [u/painintheeyes, score 1, recovered from pullpush.io] Good brother! Same here. Took the long route but finding new things everytime which science and words cannot even explain at this time. [u/_ashok_kumar, score 1, recovered from pullpush.io] He has talked about it several times but I am unable to recall a specific video. But fear not. He recently had a [conversation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S57DSgRWBRM) with Swami Sarvapriyananda where they go into a lot of detail. [u/aloof_aware, score 1, recovered from pullpush.io] Society starts with you :P